1
ExpandEd CritiCal Hits for 
WarHammEr fantasy rolEplay 4E
A bunch of years ago I wrote an extended set of Critical Hit charts for WFRP 2E, inspired by fellow physician Chuck’s charts. My efforts were 
published at his Winds of Chaos website and evidently grew quite popular. There are a few things to be said about them, for example that I 
hadn’t bothered reading the magic rules properly despite frequently referring to magic for healing purposes, or that my initial die roll columns 
didn’t really reflect the lethality of the rule book sets (something I tried to address by making several versions of different lethality to choose 
from). Anyway, I had a lot of fun writing them…
Then 2E disappeared and the new 3E never really seemed suitable 
for converting my old charts…but now 4E has appeared and I’m 
totally excited!
 I rather like the new injur y rules, mostly because they enabled 
me to write results with a minimum of extra book-keeping required. 
The whole vibe of the 4E injury rules appear to me entertainingly 
cinematic and somewhat less lethal than in 2E, although fighting 
remains a deadly serious business. This is what I have tried to 
convey with my new charts. I haven’t really tried for realism, 
because I think most users will appreciate the charts mostly for the 
gory descriptions rather than any lessons I could convey on trauma 
medicine. Indeed, some of the results can be described as just plain 
silly or blatantly unrealistic! For example, historically pretty much 
any trauma that penetrated into the abdominal or thoracic cavity 
was a death sentence. And things like a neck brace for “clearing up” 
whip-lash trauma (one of the results in the Crushing chart) is the 
cinematic treatment; in real life it tends to be more complicated.
 Again, the whole purpose is pure enter tainment employing 
gruesome descriptions and dark comedy in the WHFRP style, 
where the descriptions and effects vary depending on the method 
of harm. Realism is very much a secondary concern.
 House rules for trauma in 4E that I’ve seen seem to be focused 
on adjusting Conditions (I fully agree that Bleeding can be an 
overpowered result) and/or the die roll for results (making higher 
or lower results more or less likely depending on what state your 
character is in). Rather than make my charts dependent on house 
rules (my own or anyone else’s) I chose to just use RAW to the 
greatest extent possible. I believe this also offers the best chance for 
people to modify as desired.
WHat’s nEW?
My new charts consist of the following ones:
• Cutting: For bladed weapons used to slash and chop, like an 
axe.
• Crushing: For weapons causing mainly blunt trauma, like a 
mace.
• Piercing: Mainly for melee weapons with a sharp point 
and usually also two edges, like a gladius-type shortsword or 
broadbladed spear, although also appropriate for thin blades 
like a rapier or stiletto.
• Bullets: For gunpowder weapons firing a single heavy bullet.
• Arrows/Bolts: For projectiles fired from a bow or crossbow, 
also appropriate for javelins and darts.
• T eeth & Claws: For natural weapons like fangs, claws and 
horns.
• Shrapnel & Shot: For gunpowder weapons and bombs using 
a multitude of smaller shot or pieces of shrapnel, like the iconic 
Blunderbuss.
• Sling: For the iconic Sling, whether firing stone or lead 
projectiles.
• Flame & Energy:  Mainly for the effects of magical spells, 
could also work for various Skaven devices using flame.
• Unarmed: For fighting with your bare hands, feet, elbows, 
knees, teeth and nails, also appropriate for some Brawling 
weapons like Knuckledusters and Saps.
At first I wasn’t sure it was even possible to gain a crit from a magical 
missile-type spell unless your target went below 0 Wounds from the 
effects, but then I saw that you could indeed make a Critical Cast 
which would cause a Critical Wound. With Miracles no such thing 
seems to be possible, but I assume you would still suffer a Critical 
Wound if taken below 0 Wounds. So mostly you would only bother 
with that when important NPCs or player characters were involved.
 For 2E I made a Crit chart for Large Monsters, specifically so 
that huge and monstrous foes would not be crippled by injuries 
that would take down a frail human-sized target. Because the 4E 
Bestiary rules are so very different and because I do not know if any 
supplements modify the Rule Book take on large creatures to any 
greater extent, I do not plan on writing any 4E equivalent. Same 
goes for the Quadruped and Winged charts.
CorE & Up in arms diCE roll ColUmns
I have included die roll columns both for those who use the original 
rules from the Rule Book and for those who prefer the alternate 
ones from the Up In Arms supplement. In the latter critical hits 
taken while you still have Wounds left generally tend to be less 
serious but things turn much deadlier once you cross the 0 Wounds 
threshold, somewhat similar to how Critical Hits were treated in 2E 
(with the exception of Head hits where the chart is actually much 
deadlier with the Up In Arms version compared to the Rule Book 
chart). 
 Up In Arms also introduced the T rivial (T) level of critical 
wounds (which do not cause additional Wounds and do not count 
towards the number of Critical Wounds counted towards killing a 
Character), which I have borrowed and used in my tables. Also note 
that the alternative rules for what happens when a character reaches 
0 Wounds are different in the Up In Arms supplement , replacing 
the ones in the Rule Book.
Written by Josef Tham  •  Based on work by Chuck Morrison of www.windsofchaos.com  •  Layout by Leroy Van Camp

2
WHiCH CHart sHoUld i UsE?
Many weapons are obvious, such as an Axe (Cutting), Mace 
(Crushing) or Rapier (Piercing). Some weapons can use more than 
one chart. For example, depending on the design many Swords can 
be used to either slash (Cutting) or thrust (Piercing) – the old point 
vs edge discussion was first recorded in Roman times and still a 
hot topic in the Napoleonic Era! With a Pollaxe you are spoilt for 
choice (Cutting, Piercing or Crushing, depending on which end 
you use). Firearms firing a single projectile use the Bullet chart, but 
with weapons like the iconic Blunderbuss or a Bomb that use a hail 
of smaller projectiles or shrapnel you go with the Shrapnel & Shot 
chart.
 The Sling chart is slightly special as the results depend to some 
degree on what kind of sling bullet you launched. This is because the 
historical descriptions of the effect of the more effective elongated 
almond-shaped cast lead bullets (often inscribed with phrases like 
“Take that!”) are just plain nasty, with lead sling projectiles actually 
penetrating into a target’s body, something a stone bullet or rock 
picked up from the ground wouldn’t do.
pronoUns & Groin Hits
Throughout these charts I refer to characters and their foes as “he” 
– this is for simplicity’s sake, nothing else. I sometimes also refer to 
results that differ if the character is male or female, which in no 
way suggests either the writer or any reader should feel bound to 
or limited by those terms. If the target of a certain hit has certain 
anatomical features the results ought to be appropriate, regardless 
of identity or pronoun used. If anyone feels offended, I am entirely 
to blame and I assure you it’s not intentional.
 Incidentally, there are a few results with the added description 
“If male, you may find yourself having problems procreating” – 
this does not necessarily imply genital mutilation; it could be an 
injured seminal duct higher up in that area, temporary bruising in 
an uncomfortable spot, or just the psychological possibly fleeting 
effects of a disturbingly close call. It’s up to the group if you want to 
use it just for a laugh and then ignore it. It’s not important unless 
you agree to make it so, which is why the results description says 
“may find yourself having problems” rather than “will find yourself 
having problems”.
WHat sUpplEmEnts do i HavE?
I have only the Rule Book and the Up In Arms supplement. I do 
not have knowledge of any additional rules, spells or new items 
found in other supplements, so you’ll just have to fit them into my 
rules interpretations and suggestion as you see fit.
WoUnds vs CritiCal WoUnds
Wounds are easily lost and generally easily recovered, and the Rule 
Book even outright says they represent things like minor cuts, 
abrasions and bruises, or the depletion of mental or spiritual energy 
reserves. You could also think of it as plain running out of luck 
(although Fate, Fortune, Resolve and Resilience also reflect that). 
Losing Wounds does not really represent taking a solid hit with 
ensuing tissue damage and trauma, but represents rather the steady 
degradation and draining of mental and physical reserves leading 
up to taking such a hit. A good roll could still result in a Critical Hit 
even with plenty of Wounds left.
 A Critical Wound does represent actual tissue damage. Some 
argue certain weapons should cause an automatic Critical just from 
hitting, but there are Weapon Qualities giving an increased chance 
of causing a Critical Wound, like Impale or Damaging, that cover 
this.
 “Hitting” an opponent does not necessarily mean actually 
connecting with your weapon; you can think of it as tiring the target 
out, causing him pain, beating down his defenses, or otherwise 
inconveniencing him, making it more likely your next swing will 
be a solid hit. A blow that resulted in lost Wounds without causing 
a Critical Hit could well have been deflected by the target’s armor, 
shield or weapon; it was just a much closer call than an outright 
miss or parry that did not result in any lost Wounds.
minor ClarifiCations
Any Condition with a number attached, such as Bleeding (3), refers 
to the number of Conditions gained (in this case a total of three 
Bleeding Conditions).
 I often use the Fatigued Condition to r epresent the effects of 
many different Critical Hits, like a collapsed lung or severe pain. In 
these cases the conditions for removal are specified; the Condition 
usually does not get removed after mere rest, as it would have 
otherwise.
 Example: “Collapsed Lung. Gain Fatigued (3). For healing 
purposes, count as T orn Muscle (Major), with partial healing 
reducing your Conditions from Fatigued (3) to Fatigued (1) which 
will be removed once fully healed.” This means that the Fatigued 
Condition is the effect of the injury. TheT orn Muscle mechanic is 
used only to determine the time required for partial and full healing, 
with the usual penalties/effects of T orn Muscle (Major) ignored and 
replaced by the prolonged Fatigued Condition. In this case we’re 
talking about partial healing after 30 – T oughness Bonus days, with 
full healing after another 30 – T oughness Bonus days, as per the 
rules in the Rule Book.
 The different charts are not quite equivalent in their seriousness 
of the trauma inflicted. For example, piercing injuries to the body 
tend to be very serious indeed, which is why wearing a Breastplate 
with its Impenetrable Quality is such a good idea!
 And for the recor d, I am not nor have I ever been a trauma 
surgeon. I actually specialize in geriatric medicine.

3
mEdiCal attEntion
The Rule Book defines Medical Attention as including but not 
limited to:
• Successful use of the Heal Skill
• Application of bandage, healing poultice, or similar
• Successful use of a spell or prayer that heals Wounds.
What the Rule Book leaves largely unsaid is how long this takes. 
Using the Heal Skill to speed up the healing of lost Wounds and 
applying a Healing Poultice to prevent a Minor Infection are actions 
that take place between combat encounters, not during them, 
and can take anything from minutes (for preparing and applying 
a poultice) to an extended effort spread out over most of a day 
(making an injured character comfortable, cleaning his injuries, etc).
• Any Heal tests to remove Bleeding Conditions, applying a 
Bandage, or taking a Draught or Herb that removes Conditions 
or recovers Wounds, are one-turn Actions that can be repeated 
turn after turn. Such an Action cannot be taken while in melee 
with an opponent, so you may have to depend on your friends 
and allies to keep unfriendlies away!
You could argue this isn’t realistic, but the actual length of a turn 
is left deliberately vague in the Rule Book. It could be the couple 
of seconds necessary for a single swing, or it could represent a 
longer period of time with a series of exchanges finally resulting 
in someone landing a hit. Anyway, not allowing it would result in 
an awful lot of characters bleeding to death, with the rules for the 
Bleeding Condition being what they are.
• Surgery (a Heal T est with the benefit of the Surgery Talent) 
assumes you have at the very least a Physician’s T rade T ools. 
Any Surgery use to remove Bleeding Conditions (with the 
requirement for Surgery defined in the Critical Hit chart results) 
is a one-turn Action as well. Using Surgery to prevent long-term 
effects, like setting a complicated fracture, will usually take an 
hour or more.
The Rule Book’s reference to “resolving internal issues” refers to 
things like doing surgery to remove gallbladder stones or fix an 
inguinal hernia, not dealing with combat trauma. Although if 
the GM feels particularly evil, he can insist on enforcing the rules 
regarding risk of infection even for other uses of Surgery.
HoW not to BlEEd to dEatH
It will not have escaped anyone that acquiring a Bleeding Condition 
or two in combat is a very serious thing indeed, especially if you don’t 
have the Heal skill or a nearby ally possessing that skill. Not having 
the means to remove Bleeding Conditions means that you’ve pretty 
much lost the fight as you’ll inevitably go Unconscious sooner or 
later and may die from bleeding out - with Bleeding (1) the chance 
is 50/50 whether the injury clots up or you expire eventually. Some 
injuries are extra tricky, requiring Surgery to remove the Bleeding 
Conditions.
 So I’m going to list the ways to remove Bleeding Conditions, at 
least according to my own take on what the Rule Book says, as well 
as some extra suggestions:
• A successful Heal T est, with each SL removing one Bleeding 
Condition, unless Surgery is required. The T est is usually 
Challenging (+0).
• If the description of the Critical Wound says that Surgery is 
required to remove the Bleeding Conditions you’ll need the 
Surgery Talent apart from a successful Heal T est. This also 
pretty much assumes you also have at least a Physician’s T rade 
T ools or the GM will be well justified to dramatically increase 
the Difficulty of the T est.
• Any spell or prayer that r ecovers Wounds, with one Bleeding 
Condition removed per Wound recovered, including ones 
normally requiring Surgery.
• Application of the Faxtoryll Herb, which removes all Bleeding 
Conditions caused by a single Critical Wound. This does not 
work on Bleeding Conditions requiring Surgery to remove, 
as those represent internal bleeding not really accessible to a 
Faxtoryll poultice. (Although if the GM feels merciful he may 
allow the character to spend a Resolve Point to ignore the 
extreme discomfort of having the herb stuffed deep enough 
into a wound to staunch even internal bleeding.)
• Using a Bandage with a successful Heal T est, whether combined 
with Surgery or not, will remove one additional Bleeding 
Condition. A Bandage can also be applied by someone without 
the Heal Skill, substituting a successful Challenging (+0) 
Dexterity T est, which will remove a single Bleeding Condition. 
A Bandage is one-use, whether a T est is successful or not, 
although it can be boiled and repackaged between encounters. 
If Bleeding Conditions still remain after application, additional 
Bandages can be applied with further Heal or Dexterity T ests, 
although Difficulty will increase one level for each successfully 
applied Bandage previously used (for lack of room if nothing 
else).
• Spending Resolve. Spending a point of Resolve will remove 
one Condition. Ordinarily I’d say that applies to Bleeding that 
would require Surgery to remove as well, but you’d have to bear 
in mind that would make some Internal Bleeding results on 
these charts considerably less serious.
All the above methods are single-turn Actions and may be repeated 
indefinitely, until either all Bleeding Conditions are removed or the 
patient has bled to death. Think of it as a hastily applied tourniquet 
or improvised bandage, or if used with the Surgery Talent then the 
necessary anatomical knowledge and equipment for a quick clamp, 
suture or tied-off blood vessel.
 At least, this is my take on the rules with some extra bells and 
whistles; your GM has the final word.
EmBEddEd projECtilEs & ExtraCtion
Under the Impale Weapon Quality in the Rule Book you can 
read that a Critical Hit from an arrow/bolt or bullet will mean 
the projectile is lodged in the body, and that you cannot heal one 
of your lost Wounds for each projectile that remains unremoved. 
Removal requires a Challenging (+0) Heal test for an arrow/bolt, or 
the same aided by the Surgery Talent for a bullet.
 The requirement for, and difficulty level of, any such removal 
will vary in my tables depending on the result. T o differentiate from 
removal of Conditions I’ll refer to projectile removal as Extraction. 

4
If a projectile is lodged, it will be stated as requiring Extraction 
(Difficulty) or that Extraction will require Surgery (Difficulty). 
Several results will not require Extraction at all, with the projectile 
either not lodged or simply stuck somewhere where it’ll cause no 
harm. If there is an added risk of infection it will also be stated.
 The ammunition of Blunderbusses and Bombs do not hav e the 
Impale Quality, which is why requiring Extraction doesn’t seem 
right, at least not to any frequent extent. That said, the Shrapnel 
& Shot chart will probably feature at least some results requiring 
projectile removal for the sake of flavor.
 Surgery assumes you have at least a Physician’s T rade T ools, 
containing things like arrow spoons and similar devices to extract 
projectiles. Generally speaking, if the arrowhead has come out 
the other side of the target, or if nothing sensitive is in the way 
of simply pushing it through, the Heal skill is sufficient in itself 
as you can usually then just break the shaft and pull it put. When 
lodged in bone or with vital organs in the way of pushing it through, 
Surgery may be required. Projectiles stuck in bone were notoriously 
difficult to get out, sometimes involving creative solutions like tying 
the offending arrowhead to a horse or the string of a wound-up 
crossbow.
 As an aside, the behavior of bullets when encountering bone 
varies depending on time period. The round bullets used in 
smoothbore weapons (the most likely kind to be used in WFRP) 
tend to simply crack bone or deflect away from it. The later Minié 
Bullets used with rifled muskets instead tended to deform and 
spread out, totally shattering the bone and necessitating amputation, 
some of that effect due to the higher muzzle velocity. In my charts 
I’ve chosen to simply mix and match such descriptions according 
to the seriousness of the die roll, with higher results more similar in 
description to the effects of a Minié Bullet.
propEr rEHaBilitation & traininG
The Bullet chart and Sling chart each contains a Brain Damage result 
with the character becoming hemiplegic, requiring rehabilitation. 
It’s up to the GM to decide if “proper rehabilitation and training” 
can consist of just some knowledgeable advice followed by the 
character training on his own, or if it requires spending time 
somewhere like a temple of Shallya for more expert full-time care 
(possibly requiring a hefty “donation” to the temple). Spending 
a point of Resolve may also (if the GM permits) be an excuse to 
allow the character to start rehabilitating on his own through sheer 
doggedness and unwillingness to stay a cripple.
 The GM may also decide, if the character is unable to take 
the time off for full one-month rehab, to allow a gradual training 
process, which can be accomplished in stages whenever opportunity 
permits, for example:
• 1st week: partial use of leg (M -2, Ag -20)
• 2nd week: partial use of arm (-20 to T ests)
• 3rd week: improved leg strength and coordination (M -1, 
Agility -10)
• 4th week: improved arm strength and coordination (-10 to 
T ests)
amatEUrE ampUtations
There are a few results that require an actual amputation. That’s not 
a reference to the Amputation (Difficulty) rules in the Rule Book, 
but an actual saw-it-off procedure with gangrene and Blood Rot 
setting in unless the limb is removed. This is described as requiring 
Surgery, which includes removing the limb in such a manner that 
the stump can be sewn up with a flap of skin to aid healing, and 
that major blood vessels are properly tied off to minimize blood loss. 
That’s the safe way to go about it.
 If a character’s limb is removed through the simple expediency 
of lopping it off with an axe or other sharp implement, because of 
a lack of surgeon availability, then the patient immediately gains 
Bleeding (3) and will contract a Festering Wound. Unless someone 
nearby has the Heal Skill or plenty of Bandages ready this may 
well be fatal, but that’s the price you pay for going on adventures 
without some kind of healer along!
maGiC
In my 2E charts I put quite a bit of emphasis on magical healing as 
a way to save characters from the worst effects of various injuries. 
The 4E somewhat downplays the usefulness of magic as a method 
for healing, making Surgery the method of choice for rescuing 
wounded characters on the brink of death.
 I’m ok with that, but I still think the use of magic and divine 
blessings and miracles, being so hard to acquire and master, should 
come with some possibilities in the area of healing.
• A Blessing of T enacity can remove any one Condition, including 
Bleeding even if it ordinarily would require Surgery to remove.
• A Blessing of Healing DOES NOT count as applied Surgery 
except for the purpose of removing one Bleeding Condition 
along with the single Wound recovered.
• Rhya’s T ouch will count as applied Surgery.
• Shallya’s T ears will totally remove any Critical Wound and its 
effects, regardless of whether or not it ordinarily would have 
required Surgery.
• Cauterise, from the Lor e of Fire, will remove even Bleeding 
Conditions that would ordinarily require Surgery to remove. 
Apart from that, I don’t think it should count as applied Surgery.
• Earthblood, from the Lore of Life, will count as applied Surgery.
• Healing Light, from the Lore of Light, will count as applied 
Surgery.
• Nostrum, from the Lore of Hedgecraft, will count as applied 
Surgery.
In short, any healing spell or blessing/miracle recovering more than 
a single Wound at a time can stand in for Surgery, and any spell 
or blessing/miracle that removes Conditions and Wounds can also 
remove any Bleeding Conditions, even ones normally requiring 
Surgery to remove.
 The Cauterise spell would be an exception, counting as S urgery 
only when applied to removing Bleeding Conditions. If the GM 
likes he could allow it to count as Surgery in special circumstances, 
such as when trying to mend damage from the Flame & Energy 
chart, narrating it as the spell somehow drawing the fire away from 
the wounded limb and negating the damage.
 This is merely my o wn optional take on it; your GM has the final 
word.

5
HEalinG draUGHts & poUltiCEs
These things were such an iconic part of WFRP 2e that I just have to 
mention them! Here are a few suggestions on how to interpret their 
effects, uses and limitations, and also make them more entertaining.
 The 4E Rule Book states that preparation is usually required, 
using T rade (Apothecary) and Herbalist’s T rade T ools. For things 
used between encounters (like a Healing Poultice or Earth Root) 
this is usually not a problem, but deciding whether or not you 
happened to have a ready potentially life-saving Healing Draught 
available in the middle of a fight could be troublesome. I suggest 
that all Draughts as well as the Faxtoryll and Salwort Herbs (all 
of which can be useful during an ongoing combat encounter) are 
simply counted as available if needed.
HEalinG draUGHt
Since lost Wounds usually represent minor cuts and bruises as well 
as depleted energy reserves or just plain running out of luck, with 
actual major tissue damage being represented by the Critical Hits, 
the consequence of ingesting this draught is more a matter of a 
pick-me-up effect than actually speeding up any healing process.
 These usually come in a small tightly stoppered glasswar e or 
ceramic bottle with a long enough shelf-life that it should last a 
while after acquiring it, carefully tucked into a backpack or belt. 
The actual content may vary wildly, often including things like 
laudanum, alcohol, weirdroot and such fun stuff, but the actual 
effect tends to be roughly equivalent, with the character being able 
to ignore all the aches and pains from lost Wounds, effectively 
recovering his T oughness Bonus number of Wounds.
 Although the Rule Book states that dosage is one D raught per 
encounter, I suggest that the GM allows the use of more than one, 
with suitable side effects. For each extra Healing Draught ingested 
the character will have to pass a Challenging (+0) Endurance T est 
or gain Fatigued (1) as he becomes progressively more “high” from 
the contents. Just a suggestion!
HEalinG poUltiCE
As stated by the Rule Book, this one negates the need to test for 
Minor Infection after an encounter in which the character suffered 
a Critical Wound (assuming the GM enforces the rules for Disease 
and Infection), which would normally have been a Very Easy (+60) 
Endurance T est. Nothing is said about any effect on Festering 
Wounds or Blood Rot.
 I suggest that this poultice also negates the need to test for a 
Festering Wound after combat with Creatures with the Infected 
T rait, normally an Easy (+40) Endurance T est if you suffered any 
Wounds in the fight.
 For any Festering Wounds acquired in some other way, like from 
the Wounded Symptom or as a result of a Critical Hit, I’d suggest 
gaining a +20 Bonus to all T ests required by the Symptoms.
 The ingredients of a Healing Poultice vary wildly, with every 
herbalist, physician, hedge witch or quack swearing by their own 
recipes. Some may have actual antibacterial properties, like honey 
or mouldy bread and various herbs, other creative ingredients 
including everything from eye of newt to grave soil or the (alleged) 
ash of saints. These ingredients are then usually combined with 
animal dung or boiled cow’s urine to make a nice warm (and very 
smelly) sludge that you can wrap up in leaves or linen to hold in 
place against the injury.
 Preparing a Healing Poultice takes some small amount of time, 
usually requiring a small pot or mortar and pestle (included in an 
Apothecary’s T rappings or a Herbalist’s T rade T ools), and possibly 
the cooperation of a friendly animal. A poultice does not keep well 
and cannot be kept in a character’s backpack for later use, needing to 
be applied quickly after preparation. It is thus something prepared 
and applied in the peace and quiet after a combat encounter, not 
during one. It also inevitably makes you smell very bad for the rest 
of the day, possibly resulting in some penalties depending on what 
social interactions you engage in.
CritiCal Hit CHart ClarifiCations
UnarmEd
• This chart is for when someone is r eally trying to hurt you but 
doesn’t have any weapons available! In a friendly bar-brawl that 
is usually not the case, with people pulling their punches and 
all Critical Hits ignored, anyone reduced to 0 Wounds either 
going Unconscious or deciding to throw in the towel and be 
a spectator. Should you not pull your punches and roll for 
Critical Wounds on this chart the brawl may end sooner but 
there is a very real risk of serious injury or even death. That 
would mean you’ve transformed the entertaining bar fight into 
something else entirely!
• The Unarmed chart is deliberately less lethal with fewer crippling 
results than the weapons-related charts. Knuckledusters, Saps 
and Locked Gauntlets should count as Unarmed, while Spiked 
Gauntlets do not and should roll on the Piercing chart instead.
• The results in this chart pretty much assume the attacker has 
two working arms and two working legs. That said, any “blow” 
struck could be with a fist, an elbow, a knee, a foot or even a 
head-butt, as well as throws etc. Many of the results are pretty 
unlikely if the attacker is prone on the ground or has only one 
functioning arm, in which case I suggest he is allowed to grab 
any nearby object to use as an Improvised Weapon instead.
flamEs & EnErGy
• This chart is not for magically enhanced w eapons like the 
Flaming Sword of Rhuin or Sigmar’s Fiery Hammer; those 
weapons should use the chart appropriate for the weapon (in 
these cases the Cutting and Crushing charts), with the magical 
effects represented by the extra Conditions (such as Ablaze) 
those spells provide. Rather, this chart is for crits caused by 
Miracles like Soulfire or magical missile-type spells like Great 
Fires of U’Zhul, in which fire or blasts of energy are part of 
the description. Some spells such as Comet of Casandora, 
Screaming Skull or Stream of Corruption could also use this 
chart, although you may want to adjust the descriptive results a 
bit.
• Although strictly named FLAME & E nergy, this chart could be 
used for Kislevite ice-magic or similar spells using cold rather 
than heat. On a cellular level tissues don’t care whether they 
cook or freeze; the cell structures still get ruptured.

6
• Quite a few results will inflict an infection; this is because the 
barrier of intact skin is a big part of the body’s defenses against 
microorganisms. Having one’s skin burned off opens you up for 
both infections and dehydration.
• Though the chart has effects that sometimes inflict Conditions 
that are already part of the effects of certain spells, those are 
in addition to those already caused by getting hit. So if, for 
example, you have already been inflicted with Ablaze (2) and 
Prone by a Great Fires of U’Zhul spell just by getting hit, 
and then take a crit from a Critical Cast, any Ablaze or other 
Conditions due to the crit result are simply added to the ones 
you have already accrued.
• I only have the R ule Book, so I’m not familiar with any spells 
from the supplements.
mooks: altErnativE sUddEn dEatH rUlEs
As suggested with the Sudden Death rules in the Rule Book, 
sometimes you don’t want to bother with book-keeping for 
unimportant NPCs like minor brigands, Goblins, animals, etc. But 
you may still want the pleasure of rolling for those juicy Critical 
Hits that your character worked so hard to achieve. I suggest the 
following rules:
• When the NPC reaches 0 Wounds the player who inflicted the 
damage gets all the fun of describing his kill-move. The NPC 
is either dead, dying or unconscious. The player may opt to 
knock the NPC unconscious for later interrogation, ransom or 
whatever, but the GM may decide that deliberately knocking 
someone out without accidentally killing him is harder than 
in the movies, requiring some suitable T est for a successful 
non-lethal KO (like a WS T est for the player character or an 
Endurance T est for the NPC).
• If the player inflicts a Critical Hit while the NPC still has 
Wounds left it’ll usually be enough to either take the NPC 
out of the fight or inconvenience him enough to set him up 
for a killing blow next turn. You can roll on the usual charts 
for the gory descriptions, but replace everything under 
Additional Effects with the effects described below and ignore 
any additional Wounds inflicted except as a measurement of 
the seriousness of the effects. The effects below are deliberately 
written with minimal book-keeping in mind.
Extra Wounds 
from Critical Description Effects on NPC
T Trivial Damage. Your 
blow wasn’t really 
that effective.
The NPC suffers no extra ill 
effects.
1 Distracting Injury. 
Your foe flinches 
with pain.
The NPC gains Stunned (1).
2 Harmful Injury. 
You prove your 
superiority to all 
mooks by landing a 
good one.
Head: The NPC is Blinded (3).
Body or Legs: The NPC is 
Prone.
Arm: The NPC’s arm is 
useless.
3 Demoralizing Injury. 
You convince your 
foe that he is better 
off somewhere else.
The NPC crawls or staggers 
away, bleeding and 
whimpering. If inflicted in 
melee, the player character 
may use his next Action to 
automatically finish the NPC 
off, cutting him down from 
behind. If not and the fight 
subsequently goes against 
the players the GM may 
decide the NPC returns to the 
fight, but will then count as 
Fatigued (2).
4 Crippling Injury. 
Pieces go flying 
as you expertly 
dismember your foe.
The NPC is Unconscious 
and will die at the end of the 
encounter without medical 
attention.
5 or D Gross… The player gets to describe 
the kill-move, just as if the 
NPC had been reduced to 0 
Wounds.

7
WoUnds & CritiCal WoUnds in praCtiCE
This section is just meant as inspiration for GMs and players, on 
how lost Wounds, inflicted Critical Wounds and the alternative 
Sudden Death Mook Rules may play out on the tabletop.
sitUation 1
Salundra von Drakenburg’s player is fighting a crooked fellow 
Noble. She has just managed to hit him, causing him to lose several 
Wounds but failing to inflict a Critical Hit.
 GM: “You press him more closely. As your blades lock, you 
almost but not quite manage to plant a knee in his crotch. He’s 
definitely starting to sweat!”
 Salundra’s Player: “Neat!”
sitUation 2 
A player’s character has just been hit by a Handgun to the Head 
Location, losing multiple Wounds.
 Player: “Ouch! Please tell me that wasn’t a Critical!”
 GM: “It wasn’t. You yank up your shield, knowing it’ll do you 
little good. When the smoke clears there is a neat hole in the rim 
and a groove of bright metal on the side of your helm where the 
partly spent bullet glanced off. Your face is peppered with small 
wooden splinters from the inside of the shield.”
 Player: “Phew! I start looking for some cover.”
sitUation 3
The group of characters is fighting Goblins. The Mook Rules (see 
page 6) are in effect.
 Player 1: <Has just hit a Goblin with his crossbow, inflicting a 
lucky Critical Hit to the Leg Location but not taking the Goblin 
down to 0 Wounds yet.>
 GM: <Rolls on the Bolt and Arrow chart, reads the Pierced 
Buttock result out loud.> “The Goblin’s howls echo through the 
forest. You see your crossbow bolt sticking out of its rear. It’s 
Stunned.” <Since the Critical would have caused 1 extra Wound it 
counts as a Distracting Injury on the Mook chart.>
 Players: <High fives all around.>
 Player 2: “Now it’s Molrella’s turn! She charges the Goblin and 
attacks with her Short Sword!” <Player 2’s character easily takes the 
Stunned Goblin’s last Wounds and then some. Ordinarily she’d be 
able to pick either the Cutting or Piercing chart to roll on as her 
weapon is capable of either sort of damage, but according to the 
Sudden Death rules the Goblin is out of action anyway.>
 GM: “Describe your kill-move!”
 Player 2: “Molrella hilt-bashes the Goblin into senselessness, 
then picks it up and breaks it across her knee!”
 Player 1: “Dude, she’s a Halfling! That Goblin is bigger than 
she is!”
 Player 2: “Err…ok, but the hilt-bash was hard enough to push 
its nasal bone into its tiny brain!”
 GM: “That’ll do it.”
sitUation 4 
The player’s character is all out of Fate Points and in deep trouble, 
having just taken a Critical Wound that would render her 
Unconscious. All other characters are also out of action and it’s all 
up to her…
 GM: “So the roll was for the Fractured Skull result on the 
Crushing chart and you failed your Endurance T est against gaining 
Unconscious…”
 Player: “I still have one point each of Resolve and Resilience! 
Can I spend the Resolve to ignore the effects of this crit?”
 GM: “Yes, until the beginning of your next turn. Or you could 
spend it to simply remove the Unconscious Condition.”
 Player: “You’re right! Though that’ll still leave me with the 
Fatigued effects of the hit, rendering my character pretty ineffectual…
but I have a plan!” <The player spends the Resolve and attacks her 
foe, a bareheaded renegade Knight of the White Wolf.>
 GM: “Ok, so Salundra is seeing stars and can feel the shattered 
plates of her skull grinding against each other, but with a 
superhuman effort of will she manages to stay conscious! Want to 
roll for your attack?”
 Player: “I burn my Resilience Point for an I Will Not Fail! The 
result is 11 and I pick his Head Location for my Critical, allowing 
me to avoid the Impenetrable Quality of his Plate since he’s not 
wearing any helmet!”
 GM: “Nice one! Now let’s roll well for that Critical Wound, 
shall we? This guy isn’t out of ordinary Wounds yet!”

8
arroWs & Bolts HEad 
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
01-10 01-03 T Grazed Cheek. The point grazes your cheek, leaving a line of 
red that will result in a thin, straight and quite heroic looking 
scar.
Once healed, the scar provides a bonus of +1 SL in appropriate 
social Tests. You can only gain this benefit once.
No Extraction is necessary.
11-20 04-06 1 Ear Slap. The shaft smacks your ear as it thrums past close 
enough to remove skin.
You gain Deafened (2). No Extraction is necessary.
21-25 07-09 1 Neck Wound. The arrow digs a shallow groove in the side 
of your neck. You are absolutely horrified, for a moment 
believing you just took your death wound! What was your 
Dooming again?
You must pass an Average (+20) Cool or Endurance Test to 
avoid dropping whatever you are carrying in your primary 
hand and clap it to your wound. (You can still let go and take 
an Action normally on your Turn.) No Extraction is necessary.
26-30 10-15 1 Splinter Damage. The arrow deflects off a piece of armor or 
other equipment at the base of your neck, the shaft shattering 
and peppering the underside of your chin and face with 
splinters.
You suffer a -20 penalty to your next rolled Test. No 
Extraction is necessary.
31-35 16-20 2 Scraped Eye. The fletching (or vanes if a crossbow bolt) of 
the projectile lacerate your cornea as the arrow flashes past 
fast enough that you blinking reflex fails to close the eye. The 
pain is quite excruciating!
Gain Blinded (2). 
No Extraction is necessary.
36-40 21-25 2 Slashed Face. The arrow point slashes your face to the bone. 
Whether cheekbone, jaw bone or chin, the ensuing scar will 
be a real doozy!
Gain Bleeding (1). Also, roll 1d10-5 with any positive number 
being the penalty to your Fellowship whenever your new 
scar is obvious. 
No Extraction is necessary.
41-45 26-30 2 Pierced Muscle. The arrow pierces one of the large muscles, 
like the trapezoid at the back or sternocleidomastoid at the 
side of your neck. Half the arrow’s length is sticking out the 
other side. The increasing volume of your cursing at least 
indicates neither windpipe nor carotid was harmed during 
the shooting of this projectile.
Gain Bleeding (1). Also, until Extraction of the arrow, its 
presence protruding from both front and back of your cervical 
area will inconvenience you enough for a -10 penalty to all 
Tests.
Extraction will be Challenging (+0). Should you attempt it 
while still engaged in combat each attempt will require one 
Action and both hands.
46-50 31-35 2 A Bleeder! The arrow slams into your forehead at an angle, 
scouring your skull before glancing off. Like all head wounds, 
this one is a bleeder and your eyes fill with the blood pouring 
down your face!
Gain Stunned (1) and Bleeding (1). You also gain Blinded (2) 
which cannot be removed until the Bleeding Condition has 
been removed. No Extraction is necessary.
51-55 36-40 3 Gurgle! The arrow buries itself to the fletching in your neck, 
coming out the other side. You gurgle and spit blood, but 
although it looks exceedingly dramatic neither major blood 
vessels nor spine were in the arrow’s path.
Gain Stunned (2) and Bleeding (1). Also, you now effectively 
have a Broken Bone (Minor), able to neither speak nor eat 
properly, except that the injury will be healed immediately 
once Extraction has been performed. You’ll still have to roll 
an Endurance Test to avoid long-term effects.
Extraction will be Hard (-20).
56-60 41-45 3 Jammed Jaw. The arrow scrapes across the zygomatic arc 
to jam itself into the hinge that is the temporomandibular joint 
connecting your lower jaw to your skull. You find yourself 
unable to close your mouth or even open it further.
Gain Stunned (2). You suffer a Broken Bone (Minor) , except 
the bone can’t begin to mend until the arrow is Extracted. 
Until Extraction happens you’ll also constantly have Fatigued 
(1) due to the agonizing pain of having an arrowhead keeping 
your mouth jammed open.
Extraction will be Hard (-20).
61-65 46-50 3 Lodged Deep! The arrow hits you in the back of the neck.  
Although your spinal cord is intact, the arrowhead is lodged 
deep in the bone, either in a cervical vertebrae or the thick 
base of the skull. Arrowheads stuck in bone are notoriously 
difficult to extract, so you may be looking at a life of pain and 
discomfort.
Gain Stunned (1) and pass a Challenging (+0) Endurance Test 
or go Prone. Also, after the end of the encounter you will gain 
Fatigued (1) any time you do anything physically strenuous 
(like fighting or an Athletics Test). This will keep happening 
until the arrow is Extracted.
Surgery (Hard) will be required for Extraction.
66-70 51-55 3 Open Wide! The arrow goes in through your mouth, cracking 
teeth and lacerating your tongue, before poking out behind 
the angle of your jaw. You spray a mist of blood around the 
shaft sticking out through your mouth as you shout with pain. 
Just beneath and behind your ear the arrowhead protrudes 
rudely, dripping with more of your precious blood.
Gain Stunned (2) and Bleeding (2).  Lose 1d10 teeth – 
Amputation (Challenging). If you fail the Endurance Test for 
the Amputation you’ll also lose the tongue.
Extraction will be Challenging (+0).

9
arroWs & Bolts HEad (ContinUEd) 
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
71-75 56-60 4 Face Hit! The arrow crunches into your face, punching 
through the thin walls of the maxillary sinus to lodge its point 
somewhere by the base of your skull. The arrow head then 
has the temerity to detach itself from the shaft, leaving itself 
embedded deep inside your poor head. Extraction will be 
tricky…
Gain Stunned (3). Also, you contract a Festering Wound, 
where you will suffer a -20 penalty to all Endurance Tests 
required by the Infection until Extraction has been performed.
Surgery (Difficult) will be required for Extraction.
(Check YouTube for “Henry V arrow removal” to see a couple 
of videos on how that might be accomplished.)
76-80 61-65 4 Nicked Carotid Artery. Blood starts spraying everywhere 
as one of the major arteries in your neck is clipped by the 
arrow’s passing. You quickly start feeling faint as your life 
gushes away…
Gain Bleeding (3). No Extraction is necessary.
81-85 66-75 4 Lost Eye. The arrow slams into the bony orbit of the eye. It 
doesn’t quite penetrate into your brain but the eye itself is a 
total loss! 
What do you think will look best? A glass eye or an eye patch?
Gain Stunned (3). Also, lose the eye – Amputation (Difficult).
Extraction will be Easy (+40) as you cannot possibly do any 
more damage to the already ruined eye as you yank the shaft 
out.
86-90 76-80 4 Penetrated Skull. The arrowhead crunches into your skull, 
cracking the bone and causing a subdural hematoma. 
Although the arrow didn’t penetrate into your brain, the point 
and the depressed fragments of skull will press down on it 
and exacerbate the bleeding until removed.
Gain Stunned (3). Each turn there is 10% chance you’ll 
go Unconscious. Once that has happened you’ll stay  
Unconscious until Extraction has been performed.
Surgery (Challenging) will be required for Extraction, which 
will also involve so called trepanation to remove the pieces of 
skull and drain the bleeding.
91-93 81-85 5 Ruined Face. The arrow comes in from the side, going in at the 
edge of your eye socket, damaging the eyeball, then punches 
through facial bones and sinuses, completely wrecking most 
of your upper jaw including the nasal cavity. It finally knocks 
out a couple of teeth before poking out through the opposite 
cheek. This wound will leave your facial features between 
the level of your eyes and your mouth somewhat…irregular.
Gain Stunned (3). Also, lose one eye, the nose and 1d10 teeth 
– Amputation (Hard).
Extraction will be Challenging (+0). If not performed within 
one week you’ll also contract a Festering Wound.
94-96 86-94 5 Choking! The arrow goes in either through your larynx or 
your mouth, tearing through at least one large blood vessel. 
You start choking on your own blood, coughing up great 
quantities of it, plenty of it spattering anyone unfortunate 
enough to stand too close.
You gain Stunned (1), Fatigued (2) and Bleeding (2), the latter 
of which requires Surgery to remove. Also, regardless of 
entry point you’ll suffer a permanent penalty of -10 to any 
Fellowship Tests requiring smooth talking, due to damage to 
either tongue or vocal cords.
Extraction will be Difficult (-10).
97-99 95-99 5 Brain Damage. The arrow penetrates your skull deeply, 
slicing up brain tissue and blood vessels as it goes in. The 
ensuing subarachnoid bleeding causes further damage. You 
black out from the pain!
Extracting of the arrow will require great care and a steady 
hand in order not to worsen the damage. Pray for no Fumbles! 
Simply leaving the arrow in place will involve sawing the 
shaft off as near your skull as possible, leaving a curious-
looking stump protruding.
Gain Unconscious. Once recovered from that Condition you 
instead gain Fatigued (1) that will remain for a full week as 
you experience a powerful headache.
Roll 1d10 for long-term effects:
1-5
 Frontal Lobe Damage: Roll once on the Mental Corruption 
Table. This does not lose you any Corruption Points nor 
does it count towards your Corruption Limit.
6-7 Temporal Lobe Damage: You become very forgetful and 
your Int is reduced by -10.
8-9 Parietal Lobe Damage: You suffer what is called 
expressive aphasia, effectively losing spoken speech 
(see under Amputated Parts - Tongue).
10
 Pierced Eye: You lose one eye (see under Amputated 
Parts) and will have to roll again, rerolling any additional 
0 results.
Surgery (Hard) will be required for Extraction.
100 100+ D William Tell Injury. The arrow impales your skull, spitting it 
like an apple.
You are now a surprised-looking corpse. 
Why bother with Extraction?

10
arroWs & Bolts arm
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
01-10 01-10 T Grazed Arm. The arrow only narrowly grazes you anywhere 
between hand and shoulder, drawing a few drops of blood 
from the shallowest of cuts.
Pass an Average (+20) Cool Test or take a -10 penalty to your 
next rolled Test. 
No Extraction is necessary.
11-20 11-20 1 Nicked Wrist. The arrow nicks your wrist, opening up a small 
but painful wound.
You may not use that arm for any Action on your next Turn, 
but you do not drop anything held in it.
No Extraction is necessary.
21-25 21-25 1 Forearm Wound. The arrow goes in almost parallel to your 
forearm, digging into the muscles at the upper part near the 
elbow, leaving the arrow sticking out at a sharp angle.
Until the arrow has been Extracted you suffer a -10 penalty to 
all Tests using that arm
Extracting it needs only a single Action using your other hand 
to yank it out. No Heal skill is required.
26-30 26-40 1 Pierced Deltoid. The arrow goes into the deltoid muscle 
at the junction between upper arm and shoulder, causing 
your whole arm to spasm. Fortunately it did not hit bone and 
should be easy to push out the opposite side.
Gain Bleeding (1). Also, you must pass a Hard (-20) Endurance 
Test or drop anything held in that hand.
Extraction will be Easy (+40).
31-35 41-45 2 Impaled Bicep. The arrow slams into the large bicep muscle 
on your upper arm, the arrowhead slicing it up pretty good 
before coming out the other side, all red and glistening with 
your blood.
Gain Bleeding (1) and suffer a Torn Muscle (Minor).
Extraction will be Very Easy (+60).
36-40 46-50 2 Perforated Hand. The arrow impales your hand through the 
middle of the palm, passing between the metacarpal bones. 
Anything you held in the hand is punched out of your grip!
The hand is useless (see under Amputated Parts) until the 
arrow is Extracted. Anything held in the hand is dropped and 
flies 1d10 yards backwards. After Extraction it’ll count as a 
Torn Muscle (Minor).
Extracting it needs only a single Action using your other hand 
to yank it out. No Heal skill is required.
41-45 51-55 2 Pierced Wrist. The arrow pierces your wrist, slamming 
through the carpal bones and coming out the other side. If 
you were carrying a shield it is now nailed to your forearm!
Gain Stunned (1) and suffer a Broken Bone (Minor).
If you were carrying any shield larger than a Buckler it is 
now nailed to your forearm, reducing its Shield Rating by 1. 
(Note that the Up In Arms supplement handles that Quality 
differently than the Rule Book.)
Remedying this situation will require either Extraction (Easy) 
or taking two full Actions to detach the arrow from the shield 
and snapping off enough of the shaft not to impede it.
46-50 56-60 2 Sliced Fingers. The arrow slices across the back of your 
hand or fingers, tearing the extensor tendons of several 
fingers and nicking the underlying metacarpal or phalangeal 
bones. The sight of gleaming white bone and exposed torn 
tendons curling up from the flesh is quite upsetting! Also, you 
find yourself quite unable to open up your grip properly!
Pass a Difficult (-10) Cool Test
 or lose your next Action as you 
stare at the twitching tendons and gleaming bone. You also 
suffer a Torn Muscle (Major).  You can still flex the fingers, 
just not extend them very well, so you don’t drop anything 
held in that hand.
No Extraction is necessary.
51-55 61-75 3 Impaled Forearm. The arrow thumps into your lower arm, 
scraping the long bones as it punches through between the 
ulna and radius, poking out the opposite side.
Gain Stunned (1) and Bleeding (1). The arm is useless for the 
rest of the encounter. Also, you suffer a Torn Muscle (Minor).
Extraction will be Average (+20).
56-60 76-80 3 Elbow Wound. The arrowhead slices into the crook of your 
elbow, severing one of the arteries to the lower arm where 
it branches off from the larger brachial artery. Blood starts 
spurting!
Gain Bleeding (2) and suffer a Torn Muscle (Minor). Also, the 
blood streaming down your arm is good enough for an extra 
-10 penalty to any Tests using that hand due to a slippery grip, 
until the Bleeding Conditions have been removed.
Extraction will be Average (+20).
61-65 81-85 3 Lodged In Bone! The arrow pierces your forearm, the 
arrowhead lodging in the ulna bone. It’s stuck in there good!
Gain Stunned (1). The arm is useless until the arrow has been 
Extracted. After that it’ll count as a Torn Muscle (Minor).
Extraction can only be performed after the encounter, 
requiring Surgery (Challenging).

11
arroWs & Bolts arm (ContinUEd) 
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
66-70 86-90 3 Lost Finger. You look down at your hand, suddenly finding 
yourself a finger short and a raw bleeding stump richer. Was 
that the “Whack!” noise you heard as that arrow flew by?
Lose one finger – Amputation (Very Easy). Also, the blood 
streaming from your hand is good enough for a -10 penalty 
to any Tests using that hand due to a slippery grip, until 
you’ve had some sort of Medical Attention (or the end of the 
encounter, whichever comes first).
No Extraction is necessary.
71-75 91-95 4 Cracked Scapula. Your foe’s shot fractures your scapula, 
either cracking the shoulder blade or snapping one of the 
protruding bony processes that are part of the shoulder joint. 
Sure sucks to be your arm right now!
Gain Stunned (2) and suffer a Broken Bone (Minor).
Extraction will require Surgery (Challenging) as the 
arrowhead has lodged in bone.
76-80 96-109 4 Pierced Humerus. The enemy’s arrowhead decides to take a 
liking to your upper arm bone, jamming itself deep into it after 
tearing through flesh and muscle.
Gain Stunned (2) and Bleeding (1). The arm is useless until 
the arrow has been Extracted. After that it’ll count as a Torn 
Muscle (Minor).
Extraction can only be performed after the encounter, 
requiring Surgery (Challenging).
81-85 110-115 4 Jammed Elbow. The arrow lodges in your elbow, severing 
the head of one of the long bones of the forearm and jamming 
the delicate elbow joint at a very painful 90-degree angle!
Gain Stunned (3) from the blinding pain. Also, suffer a Broken 
Bone (Major), except it cannot begin to heal until the arrow 
is Extracted.
Surgery (Hard) will be required to Extract the arrowhead and 
somewhat realign the bones of the elbow.
86-90 116-120 4 Brachial Artery. The arrow rips the brachial artery, the 
major blood vessel running along the inside of your upper 
arm, causing a spurting crimson deluge. Within seconds the 
whole side of your body is drenched in blood!
Gain Bleeding (3).
Extraction will be Challenging (+0) and any failure will result 
in gaining one Bleeding Condition as the arrow tears the 
artery up even further.
91-93 121-125 5 Nerve Damage. Your foe’s arrow passes through the meaty 
part where neck joins shoulder, above the clavicle, tearing 
through the nerves of the subclavian plexus supplying the 
arm.
Gain Stunned (1) and Bleeding (1). The arm is useless (see 
under Amputated Parts), and unless you receive magical 
healing counting as applied Surgery (any spell or prayer 
capable of recovering more than one Wound, see also the 
Preface And Clarifications document) the paralysis will be 
permanent. Ordinary Surgery will not help.
Extraction will be Challenging (+0).
94-96 126-130 5 Subclavian Artery. The arrow goes in under the collarbone 
and severs the subclavian artery leading from the aorta to 
the arm. A scarlet fountain pulses up from the angle between 
your neck and shoulder!
Gain Bleeding (3) which requires Surgery 
to remove.
Extraction will be Challenging (+0).
97-99 131-135 5 Wrecked Shoulder. Your foe really does a number on your 
shoulder, his arrow piercing bone, nerves and blood vessels, 
finally punching out from your split and cracked shoulder 
blade.
Gain Prone, Stunned (3) and Bleeding (2), the latter of which 
requires Surgery to remove. Also, the arm is permanently 
useless (see under Amputated Parts).
Extraction will be Hard (-20).
100 136+ D Under The Armpit! The shot goes in under your arm, ripping 
through part of your triceps muscle before punching into your 
armpit. From there it continues into your torso, embedding 
itself to the fletching as it impales both your lungs. You cough 
once, producing an eruption of blood from your mouth, and 
then croak.
Oh you’re dead alright!

12
arroWs & Bolts Body
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
01-10 01-10 T Torn Clothing. An item of clothing or other gear cops it as the 
arrow whizzes past.
A pouch or pocket containing coins or other items is ripped 
open, or the cord of a medallion gets severed, a document 
gets torn…other players may make suggestions but the GM 
decides! Just go for funny and annoying!
No Extraction is necessary.
11-20 11-20 1 Just A Graze! The arrow zips down your flank, leaving some 
torn skin and a spot of blood.
Your next Action may not be an attack.
No Extraction is necessary.
21-25 21-25 1 Sliced Rib. The arrowhead digs a furrow along one of your 
ribs, taking away a strip of flesh.
You take a -20 penalty to your next rolled Test.
No Extraction is necessary.
26-30 26-30 1 Thunk! The arrow is deflected or stopped by a belt buckle, 
scabbard or other item. It still delivers a good punch with all 
its kinetic energy transferred to your poor bruised self.
You go Prone. If, for some unfathomable reason, you went 
into battle naked you instead gain Bleeding (1).
No Extraction is necessary.
31-35 31-35 1 Whack! The arrow clips your shoulder, the shaft smacking 
you on the side of your head as it whirls off into the distance.
You miss your next Action and gain Deafened (2).
No Extraction is necessary.
36-40 36-40 2 Pierced Flank. The arrowhead enters and exits your flank, 
leaving the shaft embedded in your side with the ends 
protruding front and back. Fortunately it’s only stuck in the 
flesh and muscle of the abdominal wall, not having actually 
penetrated into the abdominal cavity.
Gain Bleeding (1). Until the arrow is Extracted you’ll suffer a 
-10 penalty to any physical Tests.
Extraction is easy, requiring only two hands and a full 
Action to snap and withdraw the shaft. The Heal skill is not 
necessary but if you lack it you must first pass an Average 
(+20) Cool Test to take the Action.
41-45 41-45 2 Hip Strike. The arrowhead embeds itself in the bony iliac 
crest of your hip, causing a minor fracture to the ilium bone 
of the pelvis. Although painful every time you put your weight 
on the leg on that side, it’ll heal of itself in time.
Pass a Challenging (+0) Endurance Test or gain Stunned (1). 
Regardless you’ll suffer a -1 penalty to your M, which will 
last until the bone has mended in 30 minus your Toughness 
Bonus days.
Surgery (Easy) will be required for Extraction.
46-50 46-50 2 Pierced Pectoral. The arrow nails one of your pectoral 
muscles to your ribcage. Because your impressive pecs are 
a vital part of your shoulder musculature you’ll find it both 
painful and difficult to perform those heroic mighty swings 
needed to vanquish your foes.
Roll randomly for side, left or right. Until the arrow is Extracted 
you’ll suffer a penalty of -2 to your Strength Bonus and -20 to 
all other physically demanding Tests using that arm.
Extraction will be Challenging (+0). If performed during an 
ongoing combat encounter it’ll require two hands and a full 
Action.
51-55 51-55
2 Fractured Sternum. The arrow hits you straight on the 
breastbone, cracking it but failing to penetrate. Because the 
sternum is the structure connecting your ribs together you 
suddenly find those deep breaths somewhat painful.
You gain Fatigued (1), which will last for one week.
No Extraction is necessary as the penetration is very shallow 
and the cracked bone does not grip the arrowhead. Just 
pluck it out!
56-60 56-60 3 Punctured Abdomen. The arrowhead slices through flesh, 
fat and muscle, penetrating into your abdominal cavity. 
Fortunately its force was then spent and it failed to lacerate 
any of the organs there. Still, that’s an infection waiting to 
happen!
Gain Stunned (2). Pass a Challenging (+0) Endurance Test or 
go Prone. You also must pass a Hard (-20) Endurance Test or 
contract a Festering Wound.
Extraction will be Difficult (-10), and as long as the arrow 
remains you’ll suffer a penalty of -10 to any Endurance Tests 
required by the Infection.
61-65 61-65 3 Damaged Lung. The arrow hits you high in the chest, 
puncturing the top of one lung, which partly collapses as air 
and blood leak into the pleural space. You find yourself out of 
breath and coughing blood!
Gain Fatigued (2). Because it’s only a rather minor 
pneumothorax you’ll remove one Fatigued Condition each 
week spontaneously as the lung inflates itself back again.
Surgery (Difficult) is required for Extraction.

13
arroWs & Bolts Body (ContinUEd) 
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
66-70 66-70 3 Pierced Bladder. The arrow hits low, between navel and 
groin. You’re horrified to see urine start trickling down the 
shaft. Your bladder was just pierced! A faint unmistakable 
reek reaches your nostrils as you realize what has just 
happened.
Gain Stunned (2). Fortunately for you, urine is mostly sterile 
so you only contract a Minor Infection. Also, until the wound 
has closed in a week or so you are prone to leaking, which 
reduces your Fellowship by -10 whenever you are near 
anyone with a sense of smell.
Surgery (Difficult) will be required for Extraction, and as 
long as the arrow remains you’ll suffer a penalty of -10 to any 
Endurance Tests required by the Infection.
71-75 71-75 3 Internal Bleeding. The arrowhead goes in between a pair of 
floating ribs and lacerates either your liver or your spleen, 
depending on whether your right or left side was turned 
towards your arrow-slinging foe. These organs are rich in 
blood vessels and the ensuing internal bleeding will soon 
become a very serious matter!
Gain Bleeding (1) which can only be removed through 
Surgery.
Because the spleen is an important part of your immune 
system there is a 50% chance you’ll lose the Resistance 
(Disease) Talent, if you have it.
Surgery (Difficult) will be required for Extraction.
76-80 76-80 4 Lacerated Intestine. You take the arrow in the gut! The 
smell from the wound becomes clearly identifiable as fecal 
matter spill into your abdominal cavity. Peritonitis is already 
knocking on your door!
Gain Stunned (2) and Prone. Also, you contract Blood Rot. 
You can’t recover 3 of your lost Wounds instead of the usual 
1 Wound until the arrow is Extracted.
Surgery (Hard) will be required for Extraction.
81-85 81-85 4 Pneumothorax. The arrow punches into one side of your 
chest, missing the heart but tearing up one of your lungs 
which collapses completely. Blood dribbles from your mouth 
as you try to draw breath!
Gain Fatigued (3) and Prone. For healing purposes, count 
as Torn Muscle (Major), with partial healing reducing your 
Conditions from Fatigued (3) to Fatigued (1) which will be 
removed once fully healed.
Surgery (Difficult) will be required for Extraction.
86-90 86-90 4 Major Chest Wound.  The arrowhead narrowly misses your 
heart, instead tearing through the bronchi and major blood 
vessels leading to the right lung, before ripping through that 
lung and coming out through your back right next to the 
spine. You’ll just have to learn to live with only one lung…
Gain Fatigued (3) and Prone. For healing purposes, count 
as Torn Muscle (Major) with partial healing reducing your 
Conditions from Fatigued (3) to Fatigued (2) which sadly will 
be permanent.
Extraction will be Difficult (-10) but at least you don’t have 
to worry about causing further damage as that side of your 
chest is already pretty much wrecked.
91-93 91-95 5 Punctured Kidney. The arrow punches through one of your 
floating ribs to lacerate a kidney. This results in massive 
blood loss as the kidney’s job is to filtrate your entire blood 
volume over and over again. You’ll run out of blood in no time!
Gain Stunned (1) and Bleeding (3), the latter of which cannot 
be removed without Surgery.
Surgery (Very Hard) is required for Extraction, which will 
count as resolving an internal issue due to the arrowhead 
having ended up so deep inside a body cavity.*
94-96 96-110 5 Spinal Cord Damage. The arrow slams into your lower back, 
penetrating deep enough to sever your lumbar spinal cord. 
Your legs collapse underneath you and you can no longer 
even feel them! A tragic fate for an up-and-coming hero!
Both your legs are now paralyzed and useless (see under 
Amputated Parts). Needless to say, you are now also Prone.
Surgery (Difficult) will be required for Extraction.
97-99 111-115 5 Massive Abdominal Trauma! You are bent slightly forward as 
the arrow hits, possibly in the process of trying to duck. This 
only means the projectile now goes through your body the 
long way! It enters near your solar plexus, then rips through 
your stomach sac, the thoracic diaphragm, the large and 
small intestine, and finally stops when it slams into the bones 
of your sacrum. To say that it caused a bit of a mess is not an 
understatement!
Pass a Challenging (+0) Endurance Test  or expire on the 
spot from shock. Otherwise you’ll live another Toughness 
Bonus days before dying from any number of complications 
involving respiratory distress, peritonitis and blood 
loss, being effectively helpless and sliding in and out of 
unconsciousness the whole time. If you receive magical 
healing** before that you’ll survive but will have contracted 
Blood Rot and a permanent state of being Fatigued (2).
Should you still be interested in an Extraction after all that 
it’ll require Surgery (Very Hard) and count as resolving an 
internal issue.*
100 116+ D Transfixed Heart! The arrow cleanly transfixes your heart, 
killing you pretty much instantly. A most impressive instant 
kill shot!
What part of “killing you pretty much instantly” and “instant 
kill shot” didn’t you understand?
 * This refers to the description in the Rule Book under the Surgery Talent, with a risk of further injury and infection. See also pages 2-3 
regarding Medical Attention, Surgery and Extraction. Perhaps leaving the arrowhead where it is would be a better idea…

14
Arrows & Bolts leg
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
01-10 01-10 T Torn Footwear. The arrow takes a chunk off the heel of your 
footwear, punching your foot sideways and making you 
stagger.
You need to pass an Easy (+40) Athletics Test or gain Prone. 
Also, your shoe/boot/whatever may need repair.
If you were barefoot, lose one extra Wound as the bullet 
grazes your sole.
No Extraction is necessary.
11-20 11-20 T Near Miss! The shaft of the arrow slaps the inside of your 
thigh as it passes between your legs.
Your M is halved (round up) on your next Turn as you stumble 
while looking down to assure yourself of being intact.
No Extraction is necessary.
21-25 21-25 1 Grazed Ankle. The arrow nicks your ankle, causing a small 
but painful cut on a malleolus that only hurts more as your 
footwear rubs against it for every step you take!
You suffer a penalty of -1 to your M for the rest of the 
encounter. You may make a Challenging (+0) Cool or 
Endurance Test each turn to ignore the penalty, but a failure 
of -4 SL or more will prevent you from any more tests as you 
accidentally open the cut further. If you weren’t wearing any 
footwear or take an Action to remove it you automatically 
pass the Test.
No Extraction is necessary.
26-30 26-40 1 Minor Shin Injury. The arrow glances off your tibia. It feels 
like getting kicked in the shin, only worse! Your enemy no 
doubt feels very remorseful as he watches you jump around 
on one leg.
You halve your M (round up) and suffer a penalty of -20 to any 
Agility Tests the next 1d10/2 Turns.
No Extraction is necessary.
31-35 41-45 1 Hip Wound. The arrow tears a furrow along your hip, before 
deflecting and going spinning off into the distance.
You suffer a -20 penalty to your next Test rolled, and a penalty 
of -1 to your M and -10 to your Agility for the rest of the 
encounter.
No Extraction is necessary.
36-40 46-50 1 Pierced Buttock. The arrow homes in on your gluteus muscle 
with unerring accuracy. Regardless of the incoming angle 
(from behind or the flank, slanting upwards or downwards), 
you find yourself with an embarrassing length of arrow shaft 
sticking out of your rear. Very undignified! You are very upset!
Other players may or may not choose to remind you of this 
injury at appropriate intervals.
Gain Bleeding (1). Until the arrow is Extracted you’ll also 
suffer a halved M (round up) and a penalty of -20 to all Agility 
Tests.
Due to the unfortunate placement Extraction will have to be 
performed by someone else. This will be an Average (+20) 
Test and will take a full Action and require that you be Prone 
if performed during an ongoing combat encounter.
41-45 51-55 2 Severed Toe Tendons. The arrow slices across the back of 
your foot, damaging several of the extensor tendons to your 
toes. This leads to you being able to curl but not properly 
extend your toes, with ensuing impaired balance and risk of 
stumbling over things as the front of your foot connects with 
ledges, stair steps, tree roots, etc.
Pass a Difficult (-10) Cool Test or lose your next Action as you 
look down at your dysfunctional foot and see the twitching 
white shreds of tendon curling out from the exposed flesh. 
You also suffer a Torn Muscle (Major) , except your M is 
unaffected.
No Extraction is necessary.
46-50 56-60 2 Pierced Patellar Tendon.  The arrow hits your thigh just 
above the knee, sinking into the large quadriceps tendon 
attached to the patella, nailing the tendon to the underlying 
bone of the lower femur.
Until the arrow is Extracted your M is reduced to 1 and you’ll 
suffer a -30 penalty to all Tests involving the leg.
Extraction will be Challenging (+0) and requires both hands 
and one full Action, after which you’ll count as having a Torn 
Muscle (Minor).
51-55 61-65 2 Severed Toe. The arrowhead pierces the front of your 
footwear. Next time you remove the footwear, one of your 
toes fall out. Disturbing!
You lose one toe – Amputation (Easy).
No Extraction is necessary.
56-60 66-70 2 Impaled Calf. The arrow transfixes your calf muscle. Gain Bleeding (1) and suffer a Torn Muscle (Minor).
Extraction will be Average (+20).
61-65 71-75 3 Thigh Wound. The arrow sinks deep into your thigh, tearing 
through both the quadriceps muscle in the front and 
hamstrings at the rear, the tip of the arrowhead poking out 
through the skin at the back of the leg.
Gain Bleeding (2) and suffer a Torn Muscle (Major).
Extraction will be Challenging (+0).

15
Arrows & Bolts leg (continued) 
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
66-70 76-80 3 Lower Leg Injury. The arrow fractures the fibula, one of the 
long bones in the lower leg, as it slams through, tearing a 
gaping wound through the calf. Shards of the fibula can 
momentarily be seen before the flow of blood obscures them.
Gain Stunned (1) and Bleeding (2). Also, your M is reduced 
to 1 and you’ll suffer a -30 penalty to all Tests involving the 
leg until the bone has set in 30 minus your Toughness Bonus 
days.
Extraction will be Challenging (+0).
71-75 81-85 3 Impaled Foot. The arrow transfixes your foot, crunching 
through the tarsal bones of the ankle. Your foot is momentarily 
nailed to the ground, pinning you in place.
You suffer a Broken Bone (Minor)  and while still upright 
you are unable to move from the spot. At any time you can 
voluntarily go Prone to break the pin, after which you can 
crawl away as usual.
Extraction will be Challenging (+0).
76-80 86-90 4 Hip Fracture. The arrow slams into your hip, snapping the 
neck of the femur. A fracture like that is difficult to set, with a 
good chance of healing crooked.
Gain Prone, Stunned (1) and suffer a Broken Bone (Major).
Extraction will be Hard (-20), requiring the arrowhead being 
pushed through to emerge from the lower gluteal region.
81-85 91-95 4 Pierced Knee. The arrow splits your patella before wrecking 
the rest of your knee joint, severing cruciform ligaments and 
cracking bone, finally jamming inside the joint. The lower 
leg is now largely unattached to the upper, at least from a 
mechanical viewpoint.
You gain Prone, Stunned (2) and suffer a Broken Bone 
(Major), except even when healed you suffer a permanent 
penalty of -1 to your M (round up) and -20 to your Agility for 
any Tests requiring use of the leg.
Surgery (Challenging) will be required for Extraction.
86-90 96-105 4 Shattered Tibia. The long shinbone shatters from the impact 
of the arrowhead, leaving only the thinner fibula to bear your 
entire weight…which it cannot do, resulting in the fibula 
snapping as well. The foot and lower half of your lower leg 
now dangle freely, with shards of bone poking through the 
skin. An ugly and complicated open fracture like that will ruin 
anyone’s day!
You gain Prone, Stunned (3) and Bleeding (1). If you receive 
Surgery within a week it’ll count as a Broken Bone (Major) 
except you automatically fail any test to avoid long-term 
effects. Otherwise the leg is permanently useless (see under 
Amputated Parts). Regardless, you contract a Festering 
Wound due to the open fracture.
Extraction will be Challenging (+0).
91-93 106-115 4 Severe Thigh Wound.  The arrow rips through your upper 
thigh, tearing through flesh and muscle, clipping the femoral 
artery before lodging in the femur bone itself. Blood starts 
spurting and you begin to feel distinctly inconvenienced.
Gain Bleeding (3). Also, suffer a Torn Muscle (Major).
If you fail a 
Challenging (+0) Endurance Test you’re also 
unlucky enough to have had the artery severed high enough 
that an ordinary tourniquet is useless, in which case Surgery 
(and a long clamp) is necessary to remove the Bleeding 
Condition.
Surgery (Hard) is required for Extraction.
94-96 116-120 5 Nerve Damage. The arrowhead sinks into your hip, lacerating 
the femoral nerve, leaving your leg numb and useless.
Gain Stunned (2) and Prone. The leg is useless (see under 
Amputated Parts).
Surgery (Hard) is required for Extraction.
97-99 121-125 5 Iliac Artery! The arrow slams into your hip near the groin.  
Cleaving through multiple smaller blood vessels it finally hits 
the jackpot in the shape of the external iliac artery! Massive 
loss of blood ensues!
Gain Bleeding (3), which requires Surgery to remove. Should 
you survive you’ll have a Torn Muscle (Major).
Surgery (Very Hard) is required for Extraction.
100 126+ D Pelvic Ruin! The arrow slashes through your pelvic region, 
ripping through nerves and blood vessels. As you crash to the 
ground the shaft breaks and the jolted arrowhead tears new 
bloody paths through your innards. Death quickly follows.
You’re very dead, probably with a disturbed expression on 
your face.
Don’t bother about Extraction…

16
BUllEts HEad 
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
01-10 01-03 T Parted Hair. The bullet misses your skull but messes up your 
haircut, which may or may not be an improvement.
If you fail a Challenging (+0) Cool Test your next Action may 
not be an attack.
No Extraction is necessary.
11-20 04-06 1 Holed Hat. A few inches lower and your opponent would 
have drilled you between the eyes…but now he instead drills 
your headgear.
A Hat, Leather Skullcap or Open Helm goes flying 1d10 yards. 
A Mail Coif or Helm robs you of one extra Wound as mail links 
dig into your scalp or your ears start ringing from the impact. 
If you’re wearing Flexible layered armor only the outermost 
piece counts. If you were bareheaded, count this roll as the 
Parted Hair result instead.
No Extraction is necessary.
21-25 07-09 1 Nicked Ear. The bullet removes a piece of your ear, along 
with any earring in its path. The resulting asymmetry may 
impair your beauty somewhat.
You gain Deafened (2). Roll 1d10-5; if the result is positive that 
is the penalty you suffer to your Fellowship whenever your 
mangled ear is visible.
No Extraction is necessary.
26-30 10-15 1 Scratched Face. Your nose, cheek, chin or some other 
protruding part of your facial features has a close encounter 
with the bullet, resulting in the loss of skin and some minor 
amount of blood.
You suffer a penalty of -10 to any Tests you take until the end 
of your next Turn.
No Extraction is necessary.
31-35 16-20 2 Grazed Scalp. The bullet parts not just your hair but your 
scalp. Like most scalp wounds it bleeds profusely!
Gain Bleeding (1).
No Extraction is necessary.
36-40 21-25 2 Engraved Forehead. The bullet grazes your forehead, possibly 
removing part of an eyebrow. Blood starts running into your 
eyes and mouth in a very distracting manner.
Gain Stunned (1), Bleeding (1) and Blinded (2), the latter of 
which cannot be removed until the Bleeding Condition has 
first been removed.
No Extraction is necessary.
41-45 26-30 2 Pierced Cheek. Your mouth fills with blood and tooth 
fragments, courtesy of a bullet that went through one or both 
cheeks, connecting with some of your teeth on the way.
Gain Stunned (2). Also, lose 1d10/2 teeth – Amputation 
(Average).
No Extraction is necessary.
46-50 31-35 2 Cracked Jaw. The bullet tears a furrow along the line of your 
lower jaw, causing a fracture before ricocheting off. You feel 
mildly disturbed as you discover your upper and lower rows 
of teeth no longer quite line up.
Gain Stunned (2) and suffer a Broken Bone (Minor).
No Extraction is necessary.
51-55 36-40 3 Facial Wound. The bullet crunches into your face, crumpling 
part of the maxillary and cheek bones, rearranging the 
symmetry of your face. Hey, at least your nose is still attached!
Pass an Average (+20) Endurance Test or gain Unconscious, 
otherwise gain Stunned (2). You also suffer a -5 penalty to 
your Fellowship due to the scarring and asymmetry of your 
new face.
Surgery (Challenging) is required for Extraction.
56-60 41-45 3 Smashed Mouth. The bullet goes in through your open mouth. 
It lacerates your tongue and soft palate before it exits behind 
the angle of your jaw in a spray of spittle and blood.
Gain Stunned (3) and Bleeding (1). For healing purposes 
count it as a Broken Bone (Major) except long-term effects 
are automatic as you’ll never be able to speak properly again.
No Extraction is necessary.
61-65 46-50 3 Neck Wound. The bullet tears across the side of your neck, 
leaving quite a trench but fortunately a shallow one, missing 
the carotid artery and spine.
Gain Bleeding (2). You must also pass a Challenging (+0) 
Cool or Endurance Test to avoid dropping whatever you are 
carrying in your primary hand and clap it to your wound. (You 
can still let go and take an Action normally on your Turn.)
No Extraction is necessary.
66-70 51-55 3 Grazed Skull. The bullet impacts your skull at an acute angle, 
failing to penetrate before glancing off. It still manages to 
cause a minor skull fracture and a solid concussion that 
you’ll feel for a while.
Gain Stunned (2). When the Stunned Condition is removed 
it’ll be replaced by Fatigued (1) which will last for 1d10 days.
No Extraction Is necessary.
71-75 56-60 4 Lost Eye. The bullet shatters the bony orbit of one eye. The 
squishy eyeball in its path is simply obliterated.
Gain Stunned (2). You lose the eye – Amputation (Challenging). 
You must also pass a Challenging (+0) Endurance Test  or 
contract a Festering Wound in the ruin that was your peeper.
Surgery (Easy) is required for Extraction.

17
BUllEts HEad (ContinUEd)
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
76-80 61-65 4 Stunned Spinal Cord. The bullet goes in through the side of 
your neck, leaving an impressive hole as it starts tumbling 
while digging its way through your sternocleidomastoid 
muscle, missing your carotid artery by a hair. It finally lodges, 
nestled up against your cervical spine, punching it hard 
enough to temporarily stun your spinal cord.
You are temporarily paralyzed from the neck down, effectively 
gaining the Unconscious Condition except you are awake 
and aware the whole time. Roll at the beginning of each 
of your subsequent turns, needing to pass a Difficult (-10) 
Toughness Test to recover, removing the Condition.
Surgery (Challenging) is required for Extraction.
81-85 66-75 4 Shattered Zygomatic Arc. The bullet glances off your 
cheekbone, shattering it. The impact is so powerful a hairline 
crack forms at the base of your skull as your temporal bone is 
smashed inward, causing a small cerebral hemorrhage.
Gain Stunned (3). When the Stunned Conditions have been 
removed they’ll be replaced by Fatigued (2) which will last 
for 1d10 days.
No Extraction is necessary.
86-90 76-80 4 Broken Jaw. The bullet hits you square on the chin, 
shattering bone and teeth before tearing through the base 
of your tongue and floor of the mouth, finally lodging at the 
back of your throat. Your shattered lower jaw is left dangling 
and bleeding.
Gain Stunned (3) and Bleeding (1). You also suffer a Broken 
Bone (Major) and lose your tongue and 1d10 teeth – 
Amputation (Challenging).
Surgery (Difficult) is required for Extraction.
91-93 81-85 5 Cerebral Hemorrhage. The bullet pierces your skull and tears 
through one hemisphere of your brain, front to back, causing 
significant bleeding. An instant of sharp pain is followed by 
darkness. When you wake up you find yourself not quite up 
to scratch anymore…
Gain Unconscious. When you wake up you are hemiplegic. 
Roll randomly for side, left or right. The arm and leg on that 
side are useless (see under Amputated Parts). If you’re lucky 
enough to find a particularly knowledgeable Surgeon (GM’s 
decision) or a priestess or healer of Shallya she’ll realize the 
damage may not be totally permanent as you still have one 
intact hemisphere to pick up the slack – after one full month 
of proper rehabilitation and training you’ll be down to a -10 
penalty to any Tests using that arm as well as -1 to your M 
and -10 to Agility.*
No Extraction is necessary or advisable.
94-96 86-94 5 Brain Damage. The bullet removes a piece of your skull as it 
passes just a little too close for your comfort, taking a piece 
of the underlying brain with it. You now have a hole in your 
head! Better cover it up quickly! Enough intact scalp remains 
for the opening to close, but you’ll have a soft indention over 
the missing skull piece forever more…
Pass a Challenging (+0) Endurance Test or go Unconscious; 
otherwise gain Stunned (3). Regardless, once recovered 
from either Condition you instead gain Fatigued (1) that will 
remain for a full week before you stop feeling dizzy.
Roll 1d10 for long-term effects:
1-5
 Frontal Lobe Damage: Roll once on the Mental Corruption 
Table. This does not lose you any Corruption Points nor 
does it count towards your Corruption Limit.
6-7 Temporal Lobe Damage: You become very forgetful and 
your Int is reduced by -10.
8-9 Parietal Lobe Damage: You suffer what is called 
expressive aphasia, effectively losing spoken speech 
(see under Amputated Parts - Tongue).
10 Occipital Lobe Damage: You gain Blinded (1) except the 
Condition is permanent as your ability to perceive visual 
input is impaired.
No Extraction is necessary.
97-99 95-99 5 Rattle-Rattle! The bullet pierces your temple, but instead of 
boring through your brain it veers off and takes a trip along 
the inside of your skull, between bone and cortex. Mimicking 
a daredevil motorcycle rider in a Globe of Death Cage it tours 
most of the circumference of the inside of your cranium, 
finally coming to a stop somewhere in the back.
You go Unconscious. Anyone seeing the bullet entry hole 
will assume you’re quite dead, needing to pass a Hard (-20) 
Perception Test to notice you’re still breathing. You need to 
pass a Challenging (+0) Endurance Test (rolling once daily) to 
wake up again. Once you wake you’ll need to pass the same 
Test again to avoid contracting Blood Rot from meningitis. If 
you pass you’ll still be Fatigued (2) for another 1d10 days.
Although you’re certain you can sometimes hear the bullet 
rattle around inside your skull no Extraction is necessary.
100 100+ D Bull’s Eye! Small entry wound. Massive exit wound. Lots of 
splatter. ‘Nuff said.
With most of your brainpan emptied out there’s not much that 
can be done about your extreme state of deadness…
 * See Proper Rehabilitation & T raining, page 4.

18
Bullets Arm
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
01-10 01-10 T Fingertipped! The bullet clips the end of a finger, leaving you 
with a black and blue nail. Annoying!
You may not use that hand for anything on your next turn but 
you don’t drop anything held in it.
No Extraction is necessary.
11-20 11-20 1 Grazed Arm. You lose a strip of skin as the bullet grazes your 
arm.
You suffer a -10 penalty to your next Test using that arm.
No Extraction is necessary.
21-25 21-25 1 Hand Wound. The bullet cuts a track across the meat at the 
base of your thumb, causing blood to well up and make your 
grip slippery.
Until you take an Action to wipe off the blood you suffer a -10 
penalty to any Tests using that hand.
No Extraction is necessary.
26-30 26-40 1 It Went Clean Through!  The bullet makes a small neat hole 
through the triceps muscle at the back of your upper arm, 
passing through cleanly.
You suffer a Torn Muscle (Minor).
No Extraction is necessary.
31-35 41-45 2 Lost Finger. You look down at your hand, which is suddenly 
one digit short!
You lose one finger – Amputation (Easy).
No Extraction is necessary.
36-40 46-50 2 Cracked Collarbone. The bullet passes through the meaty 
part between shoulder and neck, clipping and cracking 
the clavicle on the way. The fracture is stable but far from 
painless!
Any time you want to use the arm for an Action during the 
rest of the encounter you must first pass an Average (+20) 
Cool or Endurance Test. Failure means you lose the Action. 
(You can still roll for Opposed Melee Tests as the defender, 
as necessity trumps discomfort.)
No Extraction is necessary.
41-45 51-55 2 Biceps Injury. The bullet smacks into the large muscle of 
your upper arm, passing through most of its length before 
lodging against the bone.
Gain Bleeding (1) and suffer a Torn Muscle (Minor).
Surgery (Easy) is required for Extraction.
46-50 56-60 2 Shoulder Wound. You suffer the classic heroic injury of 
having your shoulder pierced yet remaining strangely almost 
100% functional.
Gain Bleeding (1), drop anything held in that hand, and suffer 
a Torn Muscle (Minor).
Should you receive any Medical Attention during or after 
the encounter you may aim a Charm Test at whoever gives 
it, making light of your injury or looking heroically suffering.
Surgery (Average) is required for Extraction.
51-55 61-75 3 Tunneling! The bullet enters near the deltoid muscle of your 
upper arm, tunnels through the soft tissues on the outside 
of the shoulder blade and finally makes an exit through the 
back of your neck.
You suffer a Torn Muscle (Major).
No Extraction is necessary.
56-60 76-80 3 Hole In The Hand! You stretch out your hand in a vain attempt 
to ward off the projectile and it punches straight through 
the palm, allowing you to see your insufferably pleased 
opponent through the hole.
You suffer a Broken Bone (Minor). Your middle finger might 
be a bit stiff afterwards but that is easily fixed by strapping it 
to the more flexible and functional ring finger.
No Extraction is necessary.
61-65 81-85 3 Crater! The bullet smashes into your shoulder blade.  The 
projectile flattens and then shatters against the bone, the 
pieces tearing a ragged shallow crater as they spread 
outward from the impact and strip the shoulder blade of 
flesh and muscle. Grisly!
Gain Stunned (1) and Bleeding (2). You suffer a Torn Muscle 
(Major).
Surgery (Average) is required for Extraction of the bullet 
fragments still remaining in the wound.
66-70 86-90 3 Broken Bone. The bullet ricochets off your humerus on its 
way through your upper arm, breaking the bone. The arm 
falls limp at your side and the slightly deformed bullet lodges 
just underneath the skin near your armpit.
Gain Stunned (1) and Bleeding (1). You suffer a Broken 
Bone (Minor). Also, until you’ve spent an Action (using 
your other arm) sticking the broken limb into an improvised 
mitella or otherwise accomplished some sort of makeshift 
immobilization (like tucking it into your belt), the dangling 
extremity will unbalance and discomfort you enough for a 
-10 penalty to all Agility Tests.
Surgery (Easy) is required for Extraction.

19
Bullets Arm (continued)
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
71-75 91-95 4 A Burrower! The bullet enters near the wrist, then burrows 
a path along the long bones in your forearm, exiting the arm 
near the elbow, making a mess of muscles and tendons 
along the way.
The arm is useless until you’ve had some form of Medical 
Attention (see under Amputated Parts), after which it’ll count 
as a Torn Muscle (Major).
No Extraction Is necessary.
76-80 96-109 4 Shattered Forearm. The bullet shatters the radius, one of 
the long bones in the forearm, causing a nasty-looking open 
fracture with shards of bone poking through the skin.
Gain Stunned (2). You suffer a Broken Bone (Major) . Also, 
the open fracture requires you to pass a Challenging (+0) 
Endurance Test or gain a Festering Wound.
Surgery (Challenging) is required for Extraction of the many 
bone fragments even if the bullet didn’t lodge.
81-85 110-115 4 Collapsed Lung. The bullet enters your shoulder just 
underneath the collarbone, exiting your back through 
the shattered shoulder blade. Either the bullet or a bone 
fragment pierces the top of your lung, which partly collapses 
as air and blood enters the pleural space.
Gain Fatigued (2). Because it’s only a rather minor 
pneumothorax you’ll remove one Fatigued Condition each 
week spontaneously as the lung inflates itself back again.
You also suffer a Broken Bone (Minor).
No Extraction is necessary.
86-90 116-120 4 Jammed Shoulder. The bullet makes a mess of your shoulder, 
splintering bones and finally lodging inside the joint. You can 
no longer move your arm! Highly inconvenient!
Gain Stunned (2). The arm is useless (see under Amputated 
Parts). If you receive Surgery (Difficult) for Extraction of the 
bullet and to set the broken bones it’ll count as a Broken 
Bone (Major). Otherwise the arm remains useless.
91-93 121-125 5 Shattered Wrist. The bullet pierces your wrist, shattering 
the heads of the long bones of the forearm as well as 
several carpal bones, also severing the nerves and tendons 
controlling the fingers. The hand in question now hangs 
limply from what remains of your wrist.
Gain Stunned (1) and Bleeding (1). The hand is useless – 
Amputation (Average).
No Extraction is necessary.
94-96 126-130 5 Wrecked Elbow. The bullet hits you in the elbow where the 
long bones of the upper and lower arm meet in a delicately 
balanced joint. The wickedly aimed projectile shatters the 
heads of several of the bones and tears up the nerves and 
blood vessels passing through the joint. You’ll never bend 
your arm again as the elbow is either completely jammed or 
entirely disconnected.
Gain Stunned (2) and Bleeding (2). The arm is useless – 
Amputation (Challenging).
Surgery (Average) is required for Extraction.
97-99 131-135 5 Amputation Case! The bullet whacks into your shoulder, 
pancaking and flattening as it slams into the top of your 
humerus, shattering the head and tuberosities (where 
the muscles attach), transforming them into a cascade of 
fragments. A complicated fracture like that will never heal 
and the dead bone fragments will inevitably lead to infection 
and gangrene. It was a good arm…hope you weren’t too 
attached to it?
Gain Stunned (3). The arm is useless – Amputation (Hard).
After the encounter you’ll need Surgery (Challenging) 
within a week as the arm will have to be amputated at the 
shoulder or you’ll contract Blood Rot as the extremity turns 
gangrenous.
No Extraction is necessary, as any remaining bullet 
fragments not removed with the leg or coming out with the 
flood of pus won’t really make much of a difference to your 
health.
100 136+ D A Spurting Mess!  The bullet goes in high on your arm, 
ricochets its way through various bony structures on its 
way into your chest before ripping up the subclavian artery 
where it branches off from the aorta, finally exiting in a 
spray of bright arterial blood near your neck. The fountain of 
crimson keeps pumping rhythmically as you collapse.
You are absolutely covered in your own blood! Oh, and also 
quite dead.

20
BUllEts Body 
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
01-10 01-10 T Ooomph! Your belt or some other sturdy item takes the hit, 
leaving you unharmed and very relieved.
Your next Action may not be an attack. If for some odd 
reason you were not wearing anything at all, you lose one 
extra Wound as the bullet departed with some of your skin 
attached.
No Extraction is necessary.
11-20 11-20 1 Just A Graze! The bullet leaves a line of oozing redness for 
you to remember it by.
You suffer a -10 penalty to your next rolled Test.
No Extraction is necessary.
21-25 21-25 1 Rib Contusion. The bullet whacks one of your lower ribs as it 
goes by, causing a hairline fracture.
You gain Fatigued (1) which will be removed when you pass 
an Average (+20) Endurance Test, rolling at the start of each 
of your turns.
No Extraction is necessary.
26-30 26-30 1 Shoulder Punch. The hit spins you around as it clips you high 
on the arm but fails to penetrate.
Pass a Challenging (+0) Agility Test or gain Prone.
No Extraction is necessary.
31-35 31-35 1 Hip Punch. Although just a glancing blow against the 
bony iliac crest on your hip, you still suffer a bonebruising 
contusion. Enough to make you weep…or at least limp!
You suffer a penalty of -1 to your M for the rest of the 
encounter.
No Extraction is necessary.
36-40 36-40 2 Flank Wound. The bullet hits you in the side, digging through 
the muscle of your abdominal wall at an acute angle but not 
managing to enter the abdominal cavity.
Gain Bleeding (1).
Surgery (Easy) is required for Extraction.
41-45 41-45 2 Chest Wound. The bullet finds a gap between two ribs, 
angling slightly upwards as it glances off the lower one. 
Tearing a furrow through the muscle and meat of your 
chestwall it fails to penetrate your ribcage, ending up lodged 
underneath the upper rib.
 Gain Bleeding (1). You also count as Fatigued (1) until you 
pass a Challenging (+0) Endurance Test (rolling at the start 
of each of your subsequent turns).
Surgery (Hard) is required for Extraction.
46-50 46-50 2 Spinal Blow. The bullet hits you in the small of your back, 
cracking a vertebrae which temporarily deforms enough to 
smack into your lumbar spinal cord, causing your legs to be 
momentarily paralyzed.
Gain Prone. You must pass an Easy (+20) Endurance Test  
before you can rise, rolling at the start of each of your 
subsequent turns. Once you’re up again you’ll have a -1 
penalty to M and -10 to Agility for the rest of the encounter 
as your battered and stunned spinal cord recovers.
Surgery (Average) is required for Extraction.
51-55 51-55 2 Cracked Shoulder Blade. The bullet slams into the back of 
your shoulder as you twist around to dodge it. The blow is 
glancing but still manages to tear a furrow along your back 
and cause a minor fracture of the shoulder blade.
Roll randomly for side, left or right. The wound counts as a 
Torn Muscle (Minor) for the arm on that side.
No Extraction is necessary.
56-60 56-60 3 Groin Hit. Passing perilously close to even more sensitive 
areas, the bullet causes significant bleeding and plenty of 
pain as it enters low, making a short but bloody path through 
one side of the groin just underneath the skin, exiting through 
the horizontal gluteal crease, also known as the seat of your 
breeches.
Gain Stunned (3) and Bleeding (1) . Also, you now have a 
couple of holes in your pants.
No Extraction is necessary.
61-65 61-65 3 Abdominal Wall Penetration. The bullet punches you in the 
stomach, penetrating into the abdominal cavity. Fortunately 
it was thus spent, failing to lacerate your intestines, instead 
nestling into the fatty tissue of the mesentery (the folds 
attaching the intestines to the abdominal wall).
Gain Stunned (3) and pass a Challenging (+0) Endurance 
Test or also gain Prone. As the bullet settles inside your body, 
a cyst forms, eventually encapsulating this foreign object. As 
this takes place, you contract a Minor Infection.
No Extraction is necessary or advisable.
66-70 66-70 3 Collapsed Lung. You take the bullet high on your chest, near 
the shoulder. It punctures one of your lungs near its top, 
causing it to partly collapse as air and blood leaks into the 
pleural space. You start feeling short of breath.
Gain Fatigued (2). Because it’s only a rather minor 
pneumothorax you’ll remove one Fatigued Condition each 
week spontaneously as the lung inflates itself back again.
Surgery (Difficult) is required for Extraction.

21
BUllEts Body (ContinUEd)
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
71-75 71-75 3 Cracked Breastbone. The bullet hits you square in the 
sternum, cracking it. As this is the bone basically connecting 
all your ribs together both breathing and moving just got a lot 
harder and more painful.
You suffer a Broken Bone (Minor).
No Extraction is necessary, as the bullet is lodged just under 
the skin close enough to the entry wound to allow even a 
clod like you to easily push it out.
76-80 76-80 4 Gut Shot! The bullet pierces your small intestine, causing 
fecal matter to spill into your abdominal cavity. It’ll take a 
strong constitution to survive such a wound!
Gain Stunned (2). You also contract Blood Rot.
No Extraction is necessary or advisable.
81-85 81-85 4 Internal Bleeding. The bullet punches through some lower 
ribs to lacerate either your liver or your spleen, depending 
on which side you got hit in. This is very serious, as any injury 
to either of those organs can cause massive and fatal blood 
loss.
Gain Bleeding (1) which can only be removed through 
Surgery.
Because the spleen is an important part of your immune 
system there is a 50% chance you’ll lose the Resistance 
(Disease) Talent, if you have it.
Surgery (Hard) is required for Extraction, which will count 
as resolving an internal issue due to the bullet being lodged 
inside a body cavity.*
86-90 86-90 4 Major Chest Wound. One lung completely collapses as the 
bullet tears straight through your chest, exiting close to 
the spine. The resulting blood loss and acute respiratory 
distress brightens your foe’s whole day!
Gain Fatigued (3) and Bleeding (2). For healing purposes, 
count as Torn Muscle (Major), with partial healing reducing 
your Conditions from Fatigued (3) to Fatigued (1) which will 
be removed once fully healed.
No Extraction is necessary.
91-93 91-95 5 Kidney Injury. Going in just under the lower ribs, the bullet 
shreds one of your kidneys. This results in massive blood 
loss as the kidney’s job is to filtrate your entire blood volume 
over and over again. You’ll be emptied out in no time!
Gain Stunned (1) and Bleeding (3), the latter of which 
requires Surgery to remove.
Surgery (Very Hard) is required for Extraction, which will 
count as resolving an internal issue due to the bullet being 
lodged inside a body cavity.*
94-96 96-110 5 Spinal Column Severed.  You’ll have a hard time explaining 
the wound to your back but there it is…a cleanly severed 
spinal cord, its protective vertebral column also pretty much 
trashed. Your legs won’t obey you anymore.
Both legs are paralyzed – Amputation (Hard).
Surgery (Hard) is required for Extraction.
97-99 111-115 5 Gutted! The bullet, having the temerity to deform and 
flatten out for maximum tissue damage, tears through your 
abdominal cavity one side to the other, making a spectacular 
exit hole through which your torn-up intestines start spilling. 
Yuck!
Nope…not really something a surgeon can fix! Really. 
Maybe a magician or a priestess of Shallya?
The only thing that can save your life is a spell or prayer** 
within your Toughness Bonus turns, in which case you’ll live 
but gain Fatigued (4). Otherwise you’ll perish.
No Extraction is necessary.
100 116+ D Heartbreak! A well-aimed shot indeed! Why, you would 
be very impressed with your opponent if you weren’t so 
thoroughly dead from the ruptured heart and severed 
pulmonary veins!
You find yourself heartless…Heartbroken? Well, in any case 
deceased.
 * This refers to the description in the Rule Book under the Surgery Talent, with a risk of further injury and infection. See also pages 2-3 
regarding Medical Attention, Surgery and Extraction. Perhaps leaving the bullet where it is would be a better idea…
 ** See page 4 for which spells count as applied Surgery. In this case, any spell or blessing/miracle capable of recovering multiple Wounds.

22
BUllEts lEG
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
01-10 01-10 T That Was Close! You look down and see a bullet-sized hole 
through the loose fabric at your crotch.
You need to pass a Challenging (+0) Cool Test or lose your 
next Action.
No Extraction is necessary.
11-20 11-20 T Torn-Off Heel. The bullet grazes the ground, passing 
underneath your foot and tearing off the heel of your 
footwear.
You need to pass an Average (+20) Athletics Test or gain 
Prone. Also, your shoe/boot/whatever is ruined.
If you were barefoot, lose one extra Wound as the bullet 
grazes your sole.
No Extraction is necessary.
21-25 21-25 1 Graze. The bullet scrapes your leg, causing a small but 
painful injury.
You suffer a penalty of -10 to all tests until the end of your 
next Turn.
No Extraction is necessary.
26-30 26-40 1 Unfortunate Ricochet! The bullet actually hit the ground 
in front of you, where it ricocheted and deformed into a 
spinning disk of lead that slashed your calf as it whirred past 
you.
You gain Bleeding (1).
No Extraction is necessary.
31-35 41-45 1 Malleolus Mash. The bullet whacks either the lateral or 
medial malleolus of your ankle, causing pain to shoot up your 
leg. As this battered bony protuberance is the anchoring 
point of several tendons of the ankle joint, this is effectively 
a sprained foot for you!
You suffer a penalty of -1 to your M and -10 to Agility for the 
rest of the encounter.
No Extraction is necessary.
36-40 46-50 1 Butt Shot! You get hit high on the leg…very high. One of 
your buttocks now has two holes in it, one small, one slightly 
larger. Painful and embarrassing!
You miss your next Action as your eyes widen and you 
contemplate the nature of your new wound. You also suffer 
a penalty of -1 to your M and -20 to your Agility for the rest 
of the encounter.
No Extraction is necessary.
41-45 51-55 2 Hip injury. The bullet tears a red furrow along the bony iliac 
crest on your hip. The impact spins you around and the 
strength of the leg fails you, sending you crashing to the 
ground.
You gain Prone.
No Extraction is necessary.
46-50 56-60 2 Pierced Foot. The bullet penetrates your foot, breaking some 
of the metatarsal bones before exiting through the sole of 
the foot, leaving an ugly hole that you fortunately don’t have 
to look at unless employing minor acrobatics.
Your M is halved (round up) and you suffer a -20 penalty 
to your Agility, lasting until healed. For healing purposes it 
counts as a Torn Muscle (Minor).
No Extraction is necessary.
51-55 61-65 2 Calf Wound. The bullet strikes the side of your lower leg, 
tearing through your gastrocnemius, the large muscle in the 
calf. The large exit wound is both unsightly and bloody.
Gain Bleeding (1) and suffer a Torn Muscle (Minor).
No Extraction is necessary.
56-60 66-70 2 Fractured Pelvis. The bullet hits the bony crest high on your 
hip, cracking the ilium bone of the pelvis. Although stable 
the fracture is painful and leaves you unable to support your 
weight properly on that leg.
You gain Stunned (2). Also, you suffer a Broken Bone (Minor) 
except the only effect is halving your M (round up) and you 
automatically pass the Endurance Test against long-term 
effects.
Surgery (Average) is required for Extraction.
61-65 71-75 3 Thigh Wound. The bullet bores through your thigh, creating 
a gory wound canal just laterally of the femur, lodging 
underneath the skin at the back of your leg.
Pass an Average (+20) Endurance Test or go Prone. Gain 
Bleeding (2) and suffer a Torn Muscle (Minor).
Surgery (Easy) is required for Extraction.
66-70 76-80 3 Broken Femur. The bullet hammers into your thigh, piercing 
flesh and muscle, then ricocheting off the long bone before 
exiting off to one side in a spray of red. The bone cracks from 
the impact, sending you to the ground, groaning and cursing.
Gain Stunned (2), Bleeding (1)  and Prone. Also suffer a 
Broken Bone (Minor).
No Extraction is necessary.
71-75 81-85 3 Hip Fracture. The bullet goes in near your hip, smacking 
into the upper end of your thigh bone. The neck of the femur 
snaps. Setting a fracture like that is difficult work, with a 
good chance of it healing crooked.
You gain Prone and suffer a Broken Bone (Major).
Surgery (Hard) is required for Extraction.

23
BUllEts lEG (ContinUEd)
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
76-80 86-90 4 Wrecked Knee. Your foe kneecaps you, splintering your 
patella and wrecking the cruciform ligaments anchoring the 
bones of the lower leg to the upper. You’ll live with either a 
very stiff knee or a very unstable one, and you’ll never dance 
again!
You gain Stunned (2) and Prone. Also suffer a Broken 
Bone (Major), except all tests to avoid long-term effects 
automatically fail.
Surgery (Average) is required for Extraction.
81-85 91-95 4 Shattered Shin. The bullet hits you square on the shin. The 
resulting splintered mess leaves the lower end of your leg 
dangling with sharp shards of bone poking out through the 
wound. An ugly complicated open fracture which cannot 
possibly heal fully.
You gain Prone, Stunned (2) and Bleeding (1). Also suffer 
a Broken Bone (Major) except all tests to avoid long-term 
effects are automatically failed. The open fracture also 
causes you to contract a Festering Wound.
No Extraction is necessary.
86-90 96-105 4 Severe Thigh Wound. The bullet slashes into your thigh, 
deforming and causing a massive exit wound, leaving a great 
flap of muscle that used to be a big part of your hamstrings 
dangling from the back of the leg.
Gain Bleeding (3). You also suffer a Torn Muscle (Major) . 
Surgery will be required or the injury will heal only partially, 
leaving you with a permanent penalty of -1 to M and -10 to 
any Tests using that leg.
No Extraction is necessary.
91-93 106-115 4 Wrecked Foot. The bullet enters your foot near the toes, 
then travels along the long metatarsal bones, ripping apart 
tendons and blood vessels the whole way before deflecting 
upwards through the soft tissues to smash into the ankle, 
shattering several tarsal bones. It finally exits near one of 
the malleolus prominences, having pretty much travelled the 
length of the foot, leaving nothing but ruin behind.
Gain Prone and Stunned (2). The foot is useless – Amputation 
(Difficult).
After the encounter you’ll need to pass a Challenging (+0) 
Toughness Test to avoid having the foot go gangrenous, in 
which case you’ll need Surgery (Average) to amputate the 
foot within one week or you’ll contract Blood Rot as the 
dead tissues poison your body.
No Extraction is necessary.
94-96 116-120 5 Severed Femoral Artery. The bullet tears through the flesh 
and muscle of your inner thigh, high up near the groin. The 
femoral artery is torn, causing massive bleeding. A crimson 
fountain pumps rhythmically from the wound.
Gain Bleeding (3), which requires Surgery to remove. If you 
fail to bleed to death, you’ll suffer a Torn Muscle (Major).
Surgery (Hard) is required for Extraction.
97-99 121-125 5 Amputation Case! The bullet hits high on your hip, smashing 
in right between the lesser and greater trochanter 
protuberances near the head of the thigh bone, transforming 
it into a mess of splintered bone fragments. A complicated 
fracture like that will never heal and the dead bone fragments 
will inevitably lead to infection and gangrene. The whole leg 
will have to come out!
Gain Prone and Stunned (3). The leg is useless – Amputation 
(Hard).
After the encounter you’ll need Surgery (Difficult) within a 
week as the leg will have to be amputated at the hip or you’ll 
contract Blood Rot as the extremity turns gangrenous.
No Extraction is necessary, as any remaining bullet 
fragments not removed with the leg or coming out with the 
flood of pus won’t really make much of a difference to your 
health.
100 126+ D A Right Mess! The bullet performs acrobatics in your 
pelvic area, having entered through the hip. It ricochets 
back and forth between skeletal structures before taking 
an upward turn, ripping up through various organs like 
the bladder before hitting the lower part of the abdominal 
aorta at the bifurcation of the iliac vessels. Massive internal 
bleeding ensues, leading to rapid loss of blood pressure and 
consciousness followed by death.
Considering the current non-functionality of your various 
lower body organs, you’re probably best off dead anyway!

24
CrUsHinG HEad
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
01-10 01-03 T I Felt The Draft.  Passing close enough to your face to make 
your eyelashes flutter, you get away from this close encounter 
with your opponent’s weapon with just a good scare.
You suffer a penalty of -10 to your next rolled Test.
11-20 04-06 1 Noggin’ Rung. The blow barely grazes your head, unsettling 
your headgear.
If completely bareheaded you must pass a Challenging (+0) 
Endurance Test or gain Stunned (1). If wearing a hat, Leather 
Skullcap, Mail Coif or Open Helm you gain Blinded (1) as 
it settles across your eyes. A good full Helm is fitted and 
strapped on well enough to avoid any effects at all except a 
ringing noise as the weapon glances off.
21-25 07-09 1 Black Eye. Your foe’s weapon glances off your cheekbone, 
making you see stars and leaving you with a black eye.
You gain Blinded (2).
26-30 10-15 1 Broken Nose. You are blinded with pain as your nose is 
compressed beyond its breaking point.
You gain Stunned (1). Make sure to play up any attempts to 
set it straight after the fight for maximum laughs.
31-35 16-20 2 Mashed Ear. Your ear is half torn away by a near miss 
intended to smash your head in.
Gain Stunned (1), as well as a -5 penalty to Fellowship 
whenever your mangled ear is obvious. A nice hat or a new 
haircut is an obvious solution to your unsightliness.
36-40 21-25 2 Scalp Flap. Your opponent’s weapon connects with your 
head, leaving a large flap of scalp dangling and in need of 
reattachment. 
Gain Bleeding (1). Also, you gain Blinded (1), which cannot be 
removed until the bleeding Condition is removed, due to the 
copious amounts of blood running into your face.
41-45 26-30 2 Burst Eardrum. A solid blow to the side of your head bursts 
your eardrum.
Gain Stunned (1). Also, pass an Average (+20) Endurance 
Test or suffer a permanent -10 penalty to all hearing-based 
Perception Tests due to bothersome tinnitus.
46-50 31-35 2 Neck Smash. Your opponent’s weapon smashes into the 
meat of your neck, straining the large neck muscles.
Pass a Challenging (+0) Endurance Test  or go Prone. Also, 
due to your wrenched neck you suffer a penalty of -10 to your 
Agility for the rest of the encounter.
51-55 36-40 3 Face Crunch. The blow crumples one cheekbone and 
fractures part of the maxillary bone, making your previously 
flawless face a bit lopsided to look at.
Pass an Easy (+40) Endurance Test  or go Unconscious. 
Otherwise gain Stunned (2).
56-60 41-45 3 Broken Teeth. Your ivories crunch and shatter under your 
foe’s blow, causing you to spit blood and shards.
Gain Stunned (2). Lose 1d10 teeth – Amputation (Easy).
61-65 46-50 3 Busted Jaw. You suffer a mandibular bone fracture as your 
opponent connects with either your chin or your jawline.
Pass an Average (+20) Endurance Test or go Unconscious. 
Otherwise gain Stunned (2). Regardless, you suffer a Broken 
Bone (Minor).
66-70 51-55 3 Crushed Larynx. The blow slams into your Adam’s Apple, 
distorting the cartilage of your windpipe and closing your 
airways. You start to choke.
You gain Fatigued (1) and will gain another level of Fatigued at 
the end of each of your subsequent turns until the cartilage is 
popped back into place. This requires either a Hard (-20) Heal 
Test by yourself or a Challenging (+0) Heal Test by someone 
else. If successful all Fatigued Conditions are removed but 
you won’t be able to speak for a week. If you reach Fatigued 
(10) you go Unconscious and die from suffocation in another 
Toughness Bonus rounds.
71-75 56-60 4 Concussion. A powerful wallop causes your poor brain to 
rattle around inside your skull in an unhealthy manner.
Pass a Difficult (-10) Endurance Test or go Unconscious. 
Otherwise gain Fatigued (2) for the rest of the day and vomit 
heavily at the end of the encounter.
76-80 61-65 4 Whip-Lash Trauma. Your head is whipped violently to one 
side, wrenching neck muscles and nerves. Headaches and 
tense muscles will plague you for a long time, even after the 
battle.
You gain Fatigued (1), which goes away normally after a rest. 
After the end of the encounter you will again gain Fatigued (1) 
any time you do anything physically strenuous (like fighting 
or an Athletics Test). At the end of each month from now 
you’ll get to take a Hard (-20) Endurance Test to make this 
effect go away spontaneously. Alternatively, successful use 
of Surgery will get you a good neck brace that will clear it up 
in a couple of weeks, but while wearing it you’ll be at -20 to 
your Agility.
81-85 66-75 4 Fractured Skull. An unwholesome crack resounds across 
the battlefield as your skull is broken.
Pass a Hard (-20) Endurance Test  or go Unconscious. 
Regardless, you also gain Fatigued (2) which will last until 
the plates of your skull have set again in 30 minus your 
Toughness Bonus days.

25
CrUsHinG HEad (ContinUEd)
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
86-90 76-80 4 Fractured Orbit. The bony parts of your eye-socket crumple, 
trapping the muscles responsible for eye movement, resulting 
in double vision and a risk of permanent damage to the eye.
Gain Stunned (3). Surgery will be required or you’ll lose the 
eye (see under Amputated Parts) permanently.
91-93 81-85 5 Burst Eye. Your eyeball goes squish as your opponent 
smashes his weapon into your face, leaving clear gelatinous 
liquid mixed with blood running down your cheek. Painful!
Your gain Stunned (3) and your eye is lost – Amputation (Hard).
94-96 86-94 5 Depressed Skull Fracture. Your foe’s weapon crunches into 
your skull, shards pressing down on your brain and a large 
subdural hematoma forming.
You go Unconscious and will stay that way until Surgery 
removes the offending bone-shard and clears away the 
large clot to relieve the pressure on the brain. This process 
is known as trepanation, and tends to take a full day. It is 
often attended by a large crowd of onlookers eager to 
see the latest in scientific medical advances. Should the 
surgery be successful you’ll still have to pass a Challenging 
(+0) Endurance Test  or contract Blood Rot from resulting 
meningitis.
If Surgery never becomes available you could conceivably 
last a long time with the right care, just uselessly comatose.
97-99 95-99 5 Brain Damage. Something essential was destroyed, or 
a piece of your soul went flying off through the cracks…
regardless of cause, you’re just not you anymore.
You go Unconscious. Roll once on the Mental Corruption 
Table when you wake up. This does not lose you any 
Corruption Points nor does it count towards your Corruption 
Limit.
100 100+ D Splattered All Over The Place. Depending on the GM’s mercy, 
you either die instantly from a smashed skull or in a couple 
of turns, choking on your own blood as your lower jaw is 
completely torn off.
You are quite dead and ready for a closed casket funeral.

26
CrUsHinG arm
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
01-10 01-10 T Numbed Fingers. A whack across the fingers causes you to 
yelp loudly but you manage to hang on to anything held in 
that hand.
You may not use that hand for anything on your next turn but 
you don’t drop anything held in it.
11-20 11-20 1 Jarred Arm. A painful thump causes you to lose your grip and 
anything you held in that hand goes flying.
You drop anything held in that hand.
21-25 21-25 1 Funny-Bone Injury. Your ulnar nerve at the elbow is smacked 
hard, causing your hand to spasm.
You drop anything held in that hand, and the arm is useless for 
the next 1d10/2 turns (as in Amputated Parts but temporary).
26-30 26-40 1 Bruised Muscle. Your biceps, deltoid or some other major 
arm muscle takes a heavy blow, giving you a real beauty of 
a bruise.
Until you pass a Challenging (+0) Endurance Test to shake off 
the pain, any Tests you do with that arm gains a -10 penalty.
31-35 41-45 2 Mashed Fingers. Your knuckles are skinned and the tendons 
to your fingers badly bruised.
You suffer a Torn Muscle (Minor) which will heal in half the 
usual time.
36-40 46-50 2 Bone Bruise. Major muscles are crushed against 
the underlying bone, causing a hairline fracture and 
subperiosteal bleeding.
You suffer a Torn Muscle (Minor).
41-45 51-55 2 Broken Fingers. A couple of your fingers end up bent at odd 
angles and a metacarpal or two is fractured, rendering your 
hand swollen and useless.
You suffer a Broken Bone (Minor) which will heal in half the 
usual time.
46-50 56-60 2 Broken Wrist. Your opponent snaps your wrist, leaving it 
dangling at a decidedly dysfunctional angle. Don’t worry; it 
looks worse than it is!
You suffer a Broken Bone (Minor).
51-55 61-75 3 Dislocated Thumb. Your foe hits your thumb at an unfortunate 
angle, causing it to be dislocated. Not only very painful but 
also tricky to pop back in place!
You gain Stunned (1) from the severe pain. It counts as a 
Broken Bone (Minor) except that the absence of Medical 
Attention within one week of receiving the injury will cause 
you to automatically fail the Endurance Test for long-term 
effects.
56-60 76-80 3 Broken Upper Arm. A clean break of your humerus (upper 
arm bone) is accompanied by a sickening crack. The arm 
drops limply at your side. Your opponent is no doubt grinning.
You suffer a Broken Bone (Minor). Also, until you’ve spent 
an Action (using your other arm) sticking the broken limb 
into an improvised mitella or otherwise accomplished some 
sort of makeshift immobilization (like tucking it into your belt), 
the dangling extremity will unbalance and discomfort you 
enough for a -10 penalty to all Agility Tests.
61-65 81-85 3 Dislocated Shoulder. The human shoulder joint is held in 
place with little but muscles and tendons…except yours just 
took a hard enough blow to pop it out of its socket! A very 
ineffective design, sadly.
Your arm is useless (see under Amputated Parts) and the 
pain so severe you suffer a -10 penalty to all Tests. You can 
try to pop it back in place yourself, which is a Hard (-20) 
Test for either Cool, Endurance or Heal, depending on your 
method (which can consist of simply slamming yourself into 
something solid at a hopeful angle…or something slightly 
more scientific). Alternately, a friend or ally can attempt a 
Challenging (+0) Heal Test. This puts your arm back in action 
again without penalties. Otherwise the shoulder will pop 
back in place spontaneously during your next rest, but will 
be sore enough for a -10 penalty to any Tests performed with 
that arm for the next 24 hours.
66-70 86-90 3 Forearm Fracture. Either your radius or your ulna (the two 
long bones in your forearm) snaps in half. The arm stays 
straight but there are enough muscle attachments, tendons 
and nerves in the area to risk lasting damage.
You suffer a Broken Bone (Major).
71-75 91-95 4 Dislocated Elbow. Your foe’s strike is so powerful your elbow 
is completely dislocated. This is incredibly painful!
Your arm is useless (see under Amputated Parts) and the 
pain so severe you suffer a -10 penalty to all Tests for the 
rest of the encounter. The arm will remain useless until given 
Medical Attention after the encounter, which requires a 
Challenging (+0) Heal Test, which can be repeated once per 
day. If successful it’ll count as a Torn Muscle (Minor) rather 
than a lost limb.

27
CrUsHinG arm (ContinUEd)
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
76-80 96-109 4 Complicated Fracture. Your opponent shatters your upper 
arm, fracturing it into several pieces.
You suffer a Broken Bone (Major). Also, until you’ve spent 
an Action (using your other arm) sticking the broken limb 
into an improvised mitella or otherwise accomplished some 
sort of makeshift immobilization (like tucking it into your belt), 
the dangling extremity will unbalance and discomfort you 
enough for a -20 penalty to all Agility Tests.
81-85 110-115 4 Broken Elbow. The elbow really is a most marvelous and 
complex construction, but now sadly treated in a most 
destructible manner by your disrespectful foe. The elegant 
joining of radius, ulna and humerus is turned into a splintered 
mess.
You suffer a Broken Bone (Major) and gain Stunned (2). 
Surgery will be required within one week of receiving the 
injury or the Endurance Test for long-term effects will count 
as automatically failed.
86-90 116-120 4 Severed Artery. Not only does your opponent break your 
arm; the splintered bone ends also tear open an artery!
You gain Bleeding (3) and suffer a Broken Bone (Major).
91-93 121-125 5 Broken Forearm. Both bones in the forearm snap somewhere 
between wrist and elbow. Shards poke out through the skin 
and delicate nerves and tendons are torn.
You gain Stunned (2) and Bleeding (2). Your arm is useless 
(see under Amputated Parts). If you receive Surgery it’ll 
count as a Broken Bone (Major) with automatic long-term 
penalties; otherwise the arm will remain useless. The open 
fracture will also cause a Festering Wound.
94-96 126-130 5 Crushed Hand. Your enemy’s weapon comes down with 
terrible force, crushing your hand, splaying it out like an 
obscene flattened thing, every bone in it pulverized.
Gain Stunned (2) and Bleeding (1). You lose the hand – 
Amputation (Challenging).
97-99 131-135 5 Ruined Shoulder. Your foe’s strike descends on your shoulder, 
dislocating and breaking every bone in the joint and nearly 
tearing your whole arm off! Your subclavian artery is also 
torn, causing serious internal bleeding!
Gain Bleeding (2) which will require Surgery to remove. You 
lose the function of the arm permanently – Amputation (Very 
Hard).
100 136+ D Smashed! Your foe’s weapon comes crashing in from the 
side, smashing your shoulder to pieces and continuing into 
your chest, driving splinters of bone into your lungs and 
heart.
You expire in a suitably squashed manner.

28
CrUsHinG Body
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
01-10 01-10 T Ooomph! You are winded but undeterred! You take your next Action last in the turn.
11-20 11-20 1 Rib Contusion. You get smacked over the ribs, providing you 
with a nice bruise.
You gain Fatigued (1) which can be removed once you pass 
an Average (+20) Endurance Test, rolling at the end of each 
of your subsequent turns.
21-25 21-25 1 Solar Plexus Hit. Your foe hits you with a solid blow to the 
solar plexus, temporarily paralyzing your diaphragm. You 
gasp for air!
You gain Stunned (1) but don’t get any Fatigued Condition 
once you’ve recovered.
26-30 26-30 1 Broken Rib. Your opponent cracks one of your ribs, making 
deep breaths a painful experience for you.
You gain Fatigued (1) for the rest of the encounter.
31-35 31-35 1 Hip Contusion. Your foe’s weapon slams into the bony crest 
high on your hip.
Pass a Challenging (+0) Endurance Test or go Prone.
36-40 36-40 2 Cracked Pelvis. Your opponent’s weapon crashes into your 
side near the hip, causing a hairline fracture in your pelvis.
You suffer a Broken Bone (Minor)  except the only effect is 
halving your M and you automatically pass the Endurance 
Test against long-term effects.
41-45 41-45 2 Contused Kidney. A painful blow into your side causes your 
pee to take on a reddish tinge for the next few days.
Gain Stunned (2).
46-50 46-50 2 Groin Hit. A low blow…enough said! Gain Stunned (3). You may find your chances of procreation 
reduced in the future. The GM has final say.
51-55 51-55 2 Broken Collarbone. A hit on your shoulder cracks a collar 
bone. Although not crippling for your arm function, the broken 
ends grinding against each other are quite uncomfortable.
Roll randomly for side, left or right. The arm on that side 
counts as having a Torn Muscle (Minor).
56-60 56-60 3 Multiple Rib Fractures. Snaps and pops announce the fact 
that several of your ribs just broke! Breathing and moving 
just turned into a real pain.
You suffer a Broken Bone (Major).
61-65 61-65 3 Cracked Shoulder Blade. As you try to twist away from your 
foe’s weapon, you still take a mighty whack across the back 
of your shoulder.
Roll randomly for side, left or right. The arm on that side 
counts as having a Broken Bone (Minor).
66-70 66-70 3 Cracked Sternum. Your enemy’s weapon slams into your 
chest with a hideous crunch. Your breastbone, connecting 
all your ribs, is partially cracked!
Gain Stunned (2) and Prone. You also suffer a Broken Bone 
(Major).
71-75 71-75 3 Fractured Vertebrae. A tremendous blow to your back cracks 
a couple of vertebrae, temporarily paralyzing your legs as 
your spinal column momentarily flexes and compresses the 
spinal canal.
Gain Prone, except you can’t rise or use your legs for 
anything until you’ve passed a Hard (-20) Endurance Test , 
getting to roll at the end of each of your subsequent turns.
76-80 76-80 4 Punctured Lung. Splinters from a shattered rib punctures 
one lung. Air leaking into the pleural space causes the lung 
to partly collapse, robbing you of much needed oxygen.
Gain Fatigued (3). For healing purposes, count as Torn Muscle 
(Major), with partial healing reducing your Conditions from 
Fatigued (3) to Fatigued (1) which will be removed once fully 
healed.
81-85 81-85 4 Internal Bleeding. Blunt trauma or a splintered rib ruptures 
either the spleen or liver, causing serious internal bleeding.
Gain Bleeding (1) which can only be removed through 
Surgery. Because the spleen is an important part of your 
immune system there is a 50% chance you’ll lose the 
Resistance (Disease) Talent, if you have it.
86-90 86-90 4 Burst Intestine. A heavy blow to your gut ruptures a length 
of intestine, spilling fecal content into your abdominal cavity.
Gain Stunned (2) and Prone. Also, you contract Blood Rot.
91-93 91-95 5 Spinal Injury. Your spine is snapped, cutting the spinal cord. 
This results in you becoming a paraplegic with useless legs 
and poor bladder and bowel control. Tragic!
Both your legs are now useless – Amputation (Hard). 
Needless to say, you are now also Prone.
94-96 96-110 5 Pierced Pericardium. Bone splinters from your chest 
wall penetrate to your heart, piercing the pericardial sac 
surrounding this most vital organ.
Gain Fatigued (3) which will last until you’ve had Surgery, 
which will require a lengthy procedure and cause a 
Festering Wound regardless of success or failure. Until 
success happens you also have a 10% chance of dying each 
day as the fragments migrate deeper.

29
CrUsHinG Body (ContinUEd)
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
97-99 111-115 5 Flail Chest. A combination of multiple rib fractures causes 
one side of your chest to essentially detach from the rest of 
the rib cage. Your diaphragm and other breathing muscles 
find it very hard to work under these conditions, with much 
grinding together of broken bone ends and ineffectual lung 
inflation being the result.
Gain Unconscious, although you’re strictly speaking awake, 
helpless and in great distress for the first Toughness Bonus 
turns before actually losing consciousness. Unless you 
receive Surgery within a day you’ll expire. Successful 
Surgery will still not prevent you from contracting Blood 
Rot due to being unable to cough properly to ventilate your 
lungs and prevent pneumonia. Should you survive you’ll be 
bedridden and helpless for 40+1d10 days while your chest 
pieces reconnect, and will afterwards gain Fatigued (1) 
permanently.
100 116+ D Squashed Like A Bug!  The incredibly powerful swing 
punches your chest flat against your spine before breaking 
that too! All vital organs caught in between are pulped! 
Exaggerated!
You’re very dead…also a bit of a mess. If you were wearing 
a breastplate, that is flat too!

30
CrUsHinG lEG
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
01-10 01-10 T How High? You manage to make a heroic leap, your foe’s 
weapon passing harmlessly underneath you.
You must pass a Challenging (+0) Athletics Test or you may 
not attack as your Action next turn.
11-20 11-20 T Toe Whack. Your opponent’s weapon bounces off the tip of 
your footwear, breaking a toe nail.
You suffer a -10 penalty on all Tests until the beginning of 
your next turn.
21-25 21-25 1 Glancing Blow. You lose a good deal of skin to a blow that 
scrapes along your leg. Exactly the kind of injury that oozes 
and stings and makes your pants stick to it…yeech!
You suffer a -10 penalty to all Agility Tests for the rest of the 
encounter.
26-30 26-40 1 Knee Smack. An unfair blow cuts your leg out from under 
you.
You gain Prone.
31-35 41-45 1 Hip Bash. A mighty whack to your hip makes a crunching 
noise, leaving you to wonder if it was just muscle fibers or 
your pelvis that broke.
You suffer a penalty of -1 to your M and -10 to your Agility for 
the rest of the encounter
36-40 46-50 1 Bruised Shin. A subperiosteal bleeding, some impressive 
swelling and a nasty discoloration is the price you pay for 
fighting.
Due to a pronounced limp your M is halved (round up) and 
you suffer a -20 penalty to your Agility for the next 1d10/2 
days.
41-45 51-55 2 Bruised Thigh. You take a major wallop to your thigh, causing 
an enormous bruise and the mother of all “charley horses” 
as your thigh muscles cramp painfully.
Your leg is useless (see under Amputated Parts) until you 
pass a Hard (-20) Endurance Test, rolling at the end of each 
of your subsequent turns. Pass a Challenging (+0) Athletics 
Test or gain Prone any time you take another hit to any 
Location. You’ll recover fully from these effects at the end 
of the encounter.
46-50 56-60 2 Broken Ankle. Your ankle breaks with a nasty snap. You suffer a Broken Bone (Minor).
51-55 61-65 2 Fractured Foot. Your foe slams his weapon down on your foot, 
breaking several metatarsals and possibly a tarsal bone or 
two as well.
This is a complicated fracture, counting as a Broken Bone 
(Minor) except you automatically fail any test to avoid long-
term effects unless receiving Surgery within a week.
56-60 66-70 2 Smashed Toe. Your opponent’s weapon comes down hard, 
flattening one or more toes, leaving them hanging by shreds 
of tissue.
You lose 1d10/3 toes (round up) – Amputation (Average).
61-65 71-75 3 Dislocated Kneecap. A blow coming in from the side smacks 
your patella sideways, effectively locking your knee joint up 
in a most painful way.
You gain Prone and Stunned (1). Also, your leg is useless (see 
under Amputated Parts) until the kneecap has been popped 
back into place. You can try to pop it back in place yourself, 
which is a Very Hard (-30) Test for either Cool, Endurance 
or Heal, depending on your method (which can consist of 
simply slamming your knee into something solid at a hopeful 
angle…or a slightly more scientific proposal). Alternately, a 
friend or ally can attempt a Challenging (+0) Heal Test. After 
a successful pop, you’ll instead count as having suffered a 
Torn Muscle (Minor).
66-70 76-80 3 Fractured Pelvis. A painful hit on the bony crest high on your 
hip, cracking your pelvis. Thankfully a stable fracture, but 
still painful.
You gain Stunned (2). Also, you suffer a Broken Bone (Minor) 
except the only effect is halving your M and you automatically 
pass the Endurance Test against long-term effects.
71-75 81-85 3 Broken Hip. The hit either snaps the head of your femur (the 
long bone in your thigh) or drives it into the acetabulum (the 
concave “cup” on the pelvic bone against which the hip 
articulates), cracking it. Setting a fracture like that is difficult 
work, with a good chance of it healing crooked.
You gain Prone and suffer a Broken Bone (Major).
76-80 86-90 4 Broken Femur. The blow snaps your thigh bone diagonally 
(also called an oblique fracture), leaving knife-like edges 
that lacerate the surrounding tissues.
You gain Prone, Stunned (2) and Bleeding (1), also suffering 
a Broken Bone (Major).
81-85 91-95 4 Shin Fracture. Your tibia is fractured. The leg is still 
reasonably straight thanks to an intact fibula (the other 
thinner long bone in your lower leg) but any weight put upon 
it leads to excruciating pain as the broken bone ends grind 
against each other. Shards of bone poke out of the skin. 
Nasty!
You gain Prone, Stunned (2) and Bleeding (1), also suffering 
a Broken Bone (Major) and contracting a Festering Wound 
due to the open fracture.
86-90 96-105 4 Shattered Kneecap. Your foe smashes your kneecap into 
multiple fragments, also cracking off pieces of the ends of 
the long bones coming together at the knee joint.
You gain Prone and Stunned (3), also suffering a Broken 
Bone (Major) except you automatically fail any test to avoid 
long-term effects unless receiving Surgery within a week.

31
CrUsHinG lEG (ContinUEd)
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
91-93 106-115 4 Shattered Foot. Your opponent lands a terrible blow on your 
foot, splintering many bones and mashing the softer tissues 
into an unsightly paste.
You gain Prone and lose the foot – Amputation (Hard). Also, 
the maimed remains of the foot will have to be amputated 
within a week (requiring Surgery) or you’ll contract Blood 
Rot as the shattered foot goes gangrenous.
94-96 116-120 5 Snapped Lower Leg. Both bones in the lower leg snap, 
leaving your foot and lower part of the leg dangling. Pieces 
of shattered bone poke out through the skin.
You gain Prone, Stunned (3) and Bleeding (1). If you receive 
Surgery within a week it’ll count as a Broken Bone (Major) 
except you automatically fail any test to avoid long-term 
effects. Otherwise the leg is permanently useless (see under 
Amputated Parts). Regardless, you contract a Festering 
Wound due to the open fracture.
97-99 121-125 5 Severed Artery. Your enemy crushes your pelvis, causing 
broken bone ends to tear your femoral artery where it 
branches off from the aorta deep inside your pelvic area. 
The copious bleeding is all but guaranteed to end your life!
You gain Prone, Stunned (3)  and Bleeding (3), the latter of 
which is caused by a major artery severed high enough that 
an ordinary tourniquet is useless, requiring Surgery (and a 
long clamp) to remove the Bleeding Condition. Should you 
fail to bleed to death you’ll end up with Blood Rot and two 
useless legs (see under Amputated Parts) as the damage 
also extends to sensitive nerve structures and ruptured 
internal organs like the bladder or bowels.
100 126+ D Crunch! Pretty much as above, except even messier, plus 
a fatty embolus from the shattered bone structures travels 
to your lungs and causes a massive pulmonary embolism to 
really ruin your day.
As if a paralyzed lower body, massive loss of blood and an 
embolism wasn’t enough, the combined shock of it all also 
mercifully kills you.

32
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
01-10 01-03 T Heroic Scar. A pink to the cheek, resulting in a classical 
dueling scar once healed, making you look very dashing 
indeed.
Once healed, the scar provides a bonus of +1 SL in appropriate 
social Tests. You can only gain this benefit once.
11-20 04-06 1 Clipped Ear. An earlobe or small section of your ear is severed 
or left dangling by a thread.
Gain Deafened (2).
21-25 07-09 1 Glancing Blow. Your headgear goes flying or is dislodged as 
your foe’s blade barely misses taking a chunk of your skull 
with it.
If this location is unarmored you gain Stunned (1). A Leather 
Skullcap or Open Helm is dropped. A Mail Coif or Helm cause 
Blinded (2), except you can negate it immediately by using a 
single Action to adjust it back to its proper position. If wearing 
layered Flexible armor only the outermost armor is affected.
26-30 10-15 1 Slash Across The Forehead. Blood pours down your face and 
flows into your eyes. Very inconvenient!
Gain Bleeding (1). Also, you gain Blinded (2) until the bleeding 
Condition is removed.
31-35 16-20 2 Nicked Vein. A vein in your neck is nicked, causing heavy 
bleeding but fortunately missing the carotid artery.
Gain Bleeding (2).
36-40 21-25 2 Chipped Brain Pan.  Your scalp is cut, the blade going deep 
enough to chip your skull. Your bell is well and truly rung!
Gain Stunned (2).
41-45 26-30 2 Severed Ear. One of your ears is completely removed, 
providing you with an unsightly hole in the side of your head 
rather than a proper hearing organ.
Gain Deafened (3) and Bleeding (1). Lose an ear - Amputation 
(Average).
46-50 31-35 2 Facial Wound. Your head is whipped around by a slash 
across the face. Whether across the bridge of your nose, 
cheek bone or chin, it sends a spray of blood across a wide 
arc, spattering your opponent liberally with your precious 
bodily fluids.
Gain Stunned (2). Also, you must pass an Average (+20) 
Endurance Test or gain Prone.
51-55 36-40 3 Flapping Cheek. A sloppily aimed blow leaves your cheek 
dangling and flapping, exposing teeth and tongue. You’re a 
frightful sight!
Gain Stunned (2). Also, your face is now quite hideous, 
reducing your Fellowship Characteristic by -10. Successful 
use of Heal skill will reduce the loss to -5 by means of crude 
stitching, while Surgery will realign the jigsaw-puzzle that is 
your face well enough to negate any loss.
56-60 41-45 3 Cleft Jaw. A slash to the side of your head leaves teeth visible 
through a gaping cut in your cheek, and cuts through the 
mandibular bone on that side, severing it near the hinge that 
is your temporomandibular joint.
Gain Stunned (2). Lose 1d10 teeth – Amputation (Challenging), 
plus suffer a Broken Bone (Major). Also, your lower jaw is 
now disturbingly unstable and so distracting that you suffer 
an additional -20 penalty to all Tests until you take an Action 
to stuff your beard, handkerchief or other suitable article into 
your mouth to bite down on in order to hold your jaw in place.
61-65 46-50 3 Damaged Eye. You take a cut across one eyelid, also injuring 
the eye beneath, causing excruciating pain.
Gain Blinded (2), which cannot be removed until you have 
had Medical Attention. Also, you must pass a Hard (-20) 
Endurance Test or drop what you have in your primary hand to 
clap it to the injury. If unsuccessful, you may attempt another 
Average (+0) Endurance Test at the beginning of each of your 
next turns to remove the hand and use it normally again.
66-70 51-55 3 Injured Trachea. You barely avoid getting beheaded but your 
foe’s blade still nicks your trachea and takes a piece out of 
your Adam’s apple, giving you a small but disturbing extra 
smile and making amusing whistling noises as air passes in 
and out through the hole.
Gain Bleeding (1) and Fatigued (2), the latter of which lasts 
until you have had Medical Attention to plug the hole. Also, 
gain Broken Bone (Minor) as the injury also makes it difficult 
to talk properly and eating solid food comfortably until healed.
71-75 56-60 4 Disfigurement. Your foe’s blade bisects your face diagonally, 
removing the major part of your nose as well as chunks of lip 
and part of one eyelid, leaving you horribly disfigured.
Gain Stunned (3) and Prone. Also lose your nose – Amputation 
(Challenging), except a Gilded Nose cannot reduce the 
resulting Fellowship Characteristic loss as the scarring is 
too extensive.
76-80 61-65 4 Neck Injury. You take your foe’s blade to the back of your 
neck, not deep enough for serious spinal damage but still 
leaving your noggin’ less attached than previously.
Gain Bleeding (2). Also suffer a Torn Muscle (Major) which 
will affect all physical actions and Tests until your neck 
muscles have knitted back together well enough to stabilize 
your head.
81-85 66-75 4 Blinded. Your dastardly foe slashes you across the eyes, 
cutting through the bridge of your nose and lacerating your 
eyelids. Highly unsporting of him!
Gain Stunned (2) and Blinded (3), the latter of which will last 
until have had Medical Attention. After the encounter, make 
an Easy (+40) Endurance Test for each eye or lose that eye 
(see under Amputated Parts).
CUttinG HEad 

33
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
86-90 76-80 4 Spurting Wound. Your foe lodges his blade in the angle 
between your neck and shoulder, failing in his desire to 
cleave you to the sternum but still damaging a major blood 
vessel, causing a spurting arterial spray of blood.
Gain Bleeding (3). Also, until you’ve had Surgery, even after 
all Bleeding Conditions are removed, any Critical Hit to Head 
or Body will inflict a new Bleeding (1) as the wound reopens.
91-93 81-85 5 Severed Tongue. You take one straight in the mouth, losing 
tongue, many teeth and possibly a bit of jawbone, looking like 
someone tried to give you a Glasgow Grin but became a little 
too enthusiastic with the slicing.
Gain Prone, Stunned (3) and Bleeding (2). Lose tongue and 
2d10 teeth – Amputation (Average).
94-96 86-94 5 Lost Eye. The blow splits one side of your face from eyebrow 
down to the corner of the mouth, crumpling one side of your 
upper jaw. A glass eye and some wooden teeth may be in 
order!
Gain Prone, Stunned (3) and Bleeding (1). Lose one eye and 
d10/2 teeth – Amputation (Hard).
97-99 95-99 5 Split Skull. Your skull is cleft, causing a cerebral hemorrhage 
as the blade sinks into the softness beneath, stopping just 
short of lobotomizing you. 
Pass a Very Hard (-30) Endurance Test to avoid gaining the 
Unconscious Condition; otherwise gain Prone. If the Test was 
an Impressive Failure (-4 SL or more) you gain Blood Rot due 
to resulting meningitis; otherwise you gain a Minor Infection. 
Also gain Broken Bone (Minor) and Fatigued (2), the latter of 
which will last until the bone has set.
100 100+ D Decapitation. Your head goes flying 1d10/5 yards; if the roll 
amounts to zero yards your head still remains attached but 
not by much. For extra amusement value, there are also 
optional “Apple Splitter” versions in which the cut passes 
through a line somewhere above the neck but with otherwise 
similar results.
You are very much deceased.
CUttinG HEad (ContinUEd)

34
CUttinG arm
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
01-10 01-10 T Jarred Arm. The flat of your foe’s blade smacks your fingers 
or elbow, causing your hand to spasm.
Pass a Challenging (+0) Endurance Test  or drop whatever 
you held in that hand. A two-handed item or weapon held 
in both hands isn’t dropped but can’t be used your next turn.
11-20 11-20 1 Minor Cut. A long but shallow wound is opened along your 
arm, bleeding freely.
Gain Bleeding (1).
21-25 21-25 1 Sliced Muscle. You take a blow to the deltoid muscle near 
the shoulder, severing muscle fibers and weakening your 
arm.
You suffer a Torn Muscle (Minor).
26-30 26-40 1 Biceps Injury. The major muscle of your upper arm is carved 
open; exposing glistening red tissue for a moment before 
upwelling blood fills the gash.
You suffer a Torn Muscle (Minor) and gain Bleeding (1).
31-35 41-45 2 Bleeding Hand. You take a cut across your hand, nicking 
tendons and making your grip slippery with blood.
Before taking an Action that requires you to hold something 
in that hand, you need to pass a Very Easy (+30) Dexterity 
Test to avoid having that object slip from your hand. If object 
is held in two hands you may reroll a failed Test. This effect 
lasts until the end of the encounter.
36-40 46-50 2 Forearm Injury. Your opponent lands a blow to your lower 
arm near the elbow, slicing through muscle to the very bone.
Gain Stunned (1) and Bleeding (1). You also suffer a Torn 
Muscle (Minor) and must pass a Challenging (+0) Endurance 
Test to keep your grip on any item held in that hand. A two-
handed weapon or item isn’t dropped but can’t be used your 
next turn if the Test is failed.
41-45 51-55 2 Tissue Loss. A meaty chunk of muscle from the flesh of your 
upper arm and shoulder hangs by a few threads of tissue 
after a clean solid slice. Your new dangly bit will have to 
come off after the fight is over. A sharp pair of scissors will 
do the trick.
Suffer a Torn Muscle (Major).
46-50 56-60 2 Nerve Damage. Your foe’s blade finds important nerves and 
blood vessels nestled between the bones of your forearm, 
not quite managing to completely sever those important 
structures, yet badly weakening your grip.
Gain Stunned (1) and Bleeding (1). You also suffer a Torn 
Muscle (Major).
51-55 61-75 3 Gaping Wound. Your biceps muscle is almost entirely 
severed from its tendonous attachments, leaving a gaping 
bleeding gash. An ugly wound indeed!
Gain Bleeding (2). You also suffer a Torn Muscle (Major).
56-60 76-80 3 Severed Clavicle. The blade comes down on your shoulder, 
the cracking sound of your collarbone snapping under the 
edge not quite as loud as your scream of pain.
You drop anything held in that hand and your arm is useless 
until you manage to succeed on a Difficult (-10) Endurance 
Test to overcome the pain, rolling at the start of your turn. 
Regardless, you suffer a -10 penalty to all tests involving any 
physical movement and -20 to any tests involving that arm 
until the bone has set in 20 minus your Toughness Bonus 
days.
61-65 81-85 3 Lost Finger. You stare in horror at the bloody stump that used 
to be a perfectly functional finger.
Gain Stunned (1). You also lose one finger – Amputation 
(Average).
66-70 86-90 3 Split Hand. Your foe’s blade comes down between your 
middle and ring finger, cleaving your hand lengthwise almost 
to the wrist, leaving the hand split like a grotesque lobster 
claw. Gruesome!
You must pass a Challenging (+0) Cool Test or gain Stunned 
(2) from the horrible sight. Fortunately the blade passed 
between the metacarpal bones, keeping nerves and tendons 
in the hand intact. The hand is useless for the rest of the 
encounter (see under Amputated Parts), but will count as a 
Torn Muscle (Major) after the encounter when you’ve had 
a chance to wrap the two halves of the split hand together 
again with a bandage or rag.
71-75 91-95 4 Busted Arm. The blade cuts through flesh and muscle to 
break your upper arm. You shout in pain as your arm drops 
to your side, no longer straight nor powerful. Your opponent 
congratulates himself on a job well done.
Gain Stunned (2) and suffer a Broken Bone (Minor).
76-80 96-109 4 Ruined Elbow. The end of one of the forearm bones is 
severed near the elbow, leaving the arm muscles no 
leverage to work with as the tendons try in vain to work with 
a suddenly mobile attachment point.
Gain Stunned (2) and Bleeding (2). Also, you suffer a Broken 
Bone (Major).

35
CUttinG arm (ContinUEd)
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
81-85 110-115 4 Ruined Hand. You suddenly become less accomplished at 
math as your foe cuts half your hand off. If you still have both 
feet you can count to ten on your toes instead.
Gain Stunned (2) and Bleeding (1). You also lose 1d10/2 
fingers – Amputation (Challenging). If five fingers are lost 
you lose the entire hand.
86-90 116-120 4 Ruined Shoulder. Your shoulder joint is deeply hacked into, 
sending bone splinters into the top of your lung, puncturing 
it. This causes a minor pneumothorax to complicate your 
breathing, as your lung partly collapses when air enters the 
pleural space.
Gain Stunned (3). You also suffer a Broken Bone (Major) and 
will be Fatigued (2), removing one Fatigued Condition per 
week until your deflated lung has inflated again.
91-93 121-125 5 Severed Wrist. Your foe cuts through your forearm, sending 
your hand on its merry way.
Gain Stunned (3) and Bleeding (2). Also, lose your hand – 
Amputation (Difficult).
94-96 126-130 5 Useless Arm. The blow comes down at an angle and scrapes 
along the bone, practically peeling the flesh off the length of 
your upper arm, severing nerves and tendons, leaving the 
arm a horrid, dripping, crippled and useless mess.
Gain Stunned (4) and Bleeding (3). Also, lose use of your arm 
permanently – Amputation (Hard).
97-99 131-135 5 Severed Arm. Your upper arm is severed near the shoulder. 
You miss it already.
Gain Stunned (4) and Bleeding (4). Also, lose your arm – 
Amputation (Very Hard).
‘Tis but a scratch!’ – The Black Knight
100 136+ D Dismemberment. Your foe’s unstoppable weapon cleaves 
through your arm and keeps going on its bloody path into 
your neck or chest. Either way, catastrophic damage is done 
to your vital areas and you expire pretty much instantly.
You end your life as a less than whole person.

36
CUttinG Body
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
01-10 01-10 T Torn Clothing. Your foe’s blade tears through the front of your 
shirt/vest/jacket/tabard, ruining it quite thoroughly.
If for some reason you entered the fight bare-chested, you 
suffer one extra Wound as the blade instead slices your skin.
11-20 11-20 1 Ooomph! The flat of your enemy’s blade slams into your 
stomach, temporarily winding you.
Gain Fatigued (1) which lasts until you pass an Average (+20) 
Endurance Test, rolling at the end of each of your turns.
21-25 21-25 1 Shallow Gash. Whether diagonal, vertical or horizontal, it is 
quite painful and bleeds freely.
Gain Bleeding (1).
26-30 26-30 1 Pectoral Injury. The proud bulge of your chest muscles gains 
a deep gash, leaving you with a few less muscle strands to 
work your shoulder with on that side. Your pecs are indeed 
quite important for those heroic swings and mighty blows, as 
you quickly discover to your chagrin.
Roll randomly for side, left or right. Any blows struck with 
the arm on that side suffer a penalty of -1 to your Strength 
Bonus, until healed. For healing purposes, count it as a Torn 
Muscle (Minor) with no other effect but the Strength Bonus 
penalty.
31-35 31-35 1 Cut To The Hip. Your opponent aims low, sinking his weapon 
into the bony iliac crest high on your hip. Despite a nasty 
crunch your pelvis is only lightly chipped, your mobility 
unimpaired.
Gain Bleeding (1). Unless you pass an Average (+20) 
Endurance Test you are also Stunned (1), except you’ll not 
suffer any Fatigued Condition to replace it once removed. An 
Impressive Failure (-4 SL or more) will also leave you Prone.
36-40 36-40 2 Back-Smash. Your attempt to duck and weave results in you 
taking a heavy cut across your back, smashing you to the 
ground in agony.
Gain Prone and Bleeding (1).
41-45 41-45 2 Tummy Slice. Your six-pack becomes a nine-pack as your 
abdominal muscles are badly slashed, leaving you doubled 
over and unable to straighten up properly for the pain.
For the rest of the encounter you’ll have to pass a 
Challenging (+0) Endurance Test at the beginning of each 
of your turns or suffer a penalty of -20 to all physical Actions 
and Tests as well as halved M for the rest of that turn.
46-50 46-50 2 Groin Job. A low blow. Although your codpiece, 
undergarments or a quick twist to the side saves your nether 
regions from mutilation you still take a frightful blow and the 
wealth of blood vessels in that area doesn’t help much either.
You gain Bleeding (1). Unless you pass a Hard (-20) 
Endurance Test you’ll also gain Stunned (2).
51-55 51-55 2 Shoulder Injury. As you try to twist away from your foe’s 
blade, it still slams into the back of your shoulder, almost 
cracking the scapula and leaving your arm badly weakened.
Roll randomly for side, left or right. You suffer a Torn Muscle 
(Minor) for the arm on that side.
56-60 56-60 3 Exposed Ribs. A long shallow gash exposes gleaming yellow 
bone as your chest is badly lacerated. A ghastly-looking 
injury!
You gain Bleeding (2) and Stunned (1).
61-65 61-65 3 Severed Ribs. Although failing to enter your chest cavity, your 
opponent’s blade still manages to cleave through several 
ribs, leaving you very discomforted as every breath you take 
grinds their broken ends against each other.
You gain Stunned (1) and suffer a Broken Bone (Minor).
66-70 66-70 3 Pneumothorax. One of your lungs collapse as your chest wall 
is penetrated, either by your enemy’s blade or the broken 
ribs it left in its wake. You find yourself suddenly very short 
of breath.
Gain Fatigued (3). For healing purposes, count as Torn 
Muscle (Major), with partial healing reducing your Condition 
from Fatigued (3) to Fatigued (1), which will be removed 
once fully healed.
71-75 71-75 3 Cracked Sternum. Your foe sinks his blade into your chest, 
splitting your sternum. As the breastbone is what holds the 
ribs together and moving in synch, this makes breathing both 
a difficult and painful proposition for you.
Gain Fatigued (3). For healing purposes, count as Broken 
Bone (Major), with the Fatigued Conditions removed 
once healed, except that any permanent long-term effect 
remaining will be an enduring Fatigued (1) which can never 
be removed.
76-80 76-80 4 Liver Laceration. Your foe’s weapon cuts through a lower 
floating rib to gash your liver. Internal bleeding and any 
resulting infection may be the end of your misspent existence. 
Gain Bleeding (1) which can only be removed by Surgery. 
Make a Challenging (+0) Endurance Test; failure means you 
contract Blood Rot, otherwise gaining a Festering Wound.
81-85 81-85 4 Holed Intestine. You take your opponent’s blade square in 
the belly, piercing the abdominal wall and damaging your gut. 
Fecal matter leak into your abdominal cavity, causing serious 
infection.
Gain Stunned (3). You contract Blood Rot. The injury requires 
Surgery to heal properly; 2 Wounds cannot be recovered 
unless healed by a surgeon.

37
CUttinG Body (ContinUEd)
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
86-90 86-90 4 Sucking Chest Wound. You suffer what is called a tension 
pneumothorax, meaning your lung collapses as air enters the 
pleural space between lung and chest wall, each breath you 
try to take causing further air to enter but not get out as the 
edges of the wound act as a valve. As air builds up it starts 
obstructing the workings of the other lung and heart.
You gain Fatigued (1), gaining another level at the end of 
each of your subsequent turns. When you have reached 
Fatigued (10) you expire. This accumulation can only be 
stopped using Surgery. If you survive you return to Fatigued 
(3) after the encounter. For healing purposes, count as Torn 
Muscle (Major) with partial healing reducing your Condition 
from Fatigued (3) to Fatigued (1) which will be removed once 
fully healed.
91-93 91-95 5 Lower Spine Injury.  Your foe hacks into your lower back, 
damaging your spinal column, hurling you to the ground and 
possibly also injuring your spinal cord.
You suffer the loss of the use of both legs – effectively a 
double Amputation (Hard) but roll only once. If you get 
successful Surgery the lost function of the legs instead 
change to Broken Bone (Major) affecting both limbs as the 
surgeon manages to brace your back in such a way that 
your battered but un-severed spinal cord can recover. (A 
failure would possibly indicate a good brace but that the 
spinal cord really was severed after all.)
94-96 96-110 5 Spilled Entrails. Your enemy guts you, splitting open your 
belly and causing your entrails to spill out the gash. You 
desperately try to hold them inside while contemplating your 
probable near demise.
You must use one hand to try to hold your escape-prone 
intestines inside for the rest of the encounter. This is 
regardless of any medical attention gained; you won’t trust 
just a flimsy bandage to hold your guts in place! You also 
gain Bleeding (2), Broken and contract Blood Rot. Your injury 
requires Surgery to heal properly; 3 of your lost Wounds 
cannot be recovered unless healed by a surgeon and until 
that happens any Critical Hit to your Body will have a 25% 
risk of causing you to contract Blood Rot again.
97-99 111-115 5 Split Open. A mighty slash opens up your chest, cutting 
through bone and muscle, severing one of the major arteries 
leading from the aortic arc to neck or arm. Bright blood 
sprays straight up from the angle of neck and body like a 
beautiful red fountain.
You go Unconscious and gain Bleeding (3), the latter of 
which can only be removed through Surgery. If you survive 
the encounter you suffer the effects of Broken Bone (Major) 
to your body and Torn Muscle (Major) to one random arm.
100 116+ D Red Ruin. Red ruin flops at your opponent’s feet as he splits 
you in half. From shoulder to hip or horizontally; the angle 
of it doesn’t really matter, as most of your vital organs are 
bisected regardless.
You are quite messily dead.

38
CUttinG lEG
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
01-10 01-10 T Damaged Shoe. You barely get your foot out of the way as 
your enemy’s blade takes off the tip of your footwear.
You suffer a -10 penalty on any Agility Test you do your 
next turn. If you’re not wearing any footwear the penalty 
becomes -20.
11-20 11-20 T Shin Hit. Your foe misses taking off your foot but the 
backswing catches your shin with the flat of the blade. There 
is much cursing.
You must pass an Average (+20) Endurance Test or suffer a 
-10 penalty to all Agility Tests for the next 1d10 turns.
21-25 21-25 1 Calf Wound. A slash to the side of your leg gives you a 
shallow cut on the calf, weakening your stance.
For the rest of the encounter you suffer a -1 penalty to your 
M and a -10 penalty to all Agility Tests.
26-30 26-40 1 Minor Cut. Your opponent’s blade lays open your leg, causing 
blood to flow freely.
Gain Bleeding (1).
31-35 41-45 1 Hip Strike. Though it fails to cut deeply, this solid strike 
nevertheless unbalances you badly.
Pass a Challenging (+0) Athletics Test  or go Prone. For the 
rest of the encounter you also suffer a -1 penalty to your M.
36-40 46-50 1 Lacerated Foot. Your foe sees an opening and slashes open a 
carelessly exposed foot. You really need to practice your foot 
work to avoid this sort of thing!
Gain Bleeding (1). For the rest of the encounter you suffer 
a -1 penalty to your M. After the encounter you must 
pass a Challenging (+0) Endurance Test or lose one toe – 
Amputation (Average).
41-45 51-55 2 Hewn-Open Thigh. Your enemy’s blade lays open your thigh 
lengthwise nearly to the bone. Although it misses the femoral 
artery blood still gushes out in copious amounts.
Gain Bleeding (2). Luckily the cut went along the grain 
of your thigh muscles rather than across, so most of your 
muscle fibers are quite intact.
46-50 56-60 2 Lacerated Hamstrings. Your wily opponent manages to hook 
his weapon around your leg and slashes open the back of 
your thigh, lacerating the muscles and tendons above the 
back of the knee.
You suffer a Torn Muscle (Minor) and must pass a 
Challenging (+0) Athletics Test or go Prone.
51-55 61-65 2 Cut To The Knee. A most ungentlemanly blow takes bone-
chips out of your knee-joint and clips your kneecap. Your leg 
crumples underneath you.
You gain Prone, Stunned (1) and suffer a Broken Bone 
(Minor).
56-60 66-70 2 This Little Piggy. One or more toes go flying, possibly in the 
direction of the market…
You lose one toe – Amputation (Challenging), with one 
additional toe lost for each full -2 SL levels of failure to the 
Endurance Test.
61-65 71-75 3 Cracked Shin. With a resounding crack your tibia is cut in 
half, leaving you unable to support yourself on that leg as 
splintered bone ends grind against each other.
You gain Prone, Stunned (2) and Bleeding (1), also suffering 
a Broken Bone (Major).
66-70 76-80 3 Severed Achilles Tendon. A sickening snap is heard as the 
major tendon behind your ankle is cut, crippling your use of 
that foot.
Gain Prone and Stunned (2). The leg is useless for 30 minus 
your Toughness Bonus days (see under Amputated Parts), 
after which you halve your M (round up) permanently as the 
ends of the tendon have shriveled up without reconnecting 
properly. If you receive Surgery within a week of receiving 
the injury the M penalty is reduced to -1 after an additional 
30 minus your Toughness Bonus days.
71-75 81-85 3 Severed Hamstrings. A brutal draw-cut to the back of your 
knee severs major tendons and muscles, crippling your leg.
Gain Prone and Bleeding (2). Also suffer a Torn Muscle 
(Major). Your leg is useless (see Amputated Parts) until the 
Torn Muscle has completely healed.
76-80 86-90 4 Groin Slash. Everyone witnessing your calamity winces as 
your foe lands one in a most uncomfortable region, which 
also happens to be the home of several large blood vessels, 
adding severe bleeding to your misfortune.
Gain Bleeding (2) and Stunned (3). If male, you may find 
yourself having problems procreating.
81-85 91-95 4 Femoral Artery. A slash to the inside of your thigh cuts the 
femoral artery, resulting in some truly spectacular arterial 
spurting.
Gain Bleeding (3). If you fail a Challenging (+0) Endurance 
Test you’re also unlucky enough to have had the artery 
severed high enough that an ordinary tourniquet is useless, 
in which case Surgery (and a long clamp) is necessary to 
remove the Bleeding Condition.
86-90 96-105 4 Wrecked Knee. Your opponent’s weapon cleaves through 
your knee, shattering bone and ligaments, wrecking the joint 
thoroughly. You’ll never dance again!
Gain Bleeding (2), Prone and Stunned (2). For healing 
purposes it counts as a Broken Bone (Major), except even 
when healed you suffer a permanent halved M (round up) 
and -20 to your Agility for any Tests requiring use of the leg.

39
CUttinG lEG (ContinUEd)
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
91-93 106-115 4 Heel! Your foe’s blade removes a large part of the rear of 
your foot. What remains is sadly a very unstable platform to 
stand on.
Gain Stunned (1). You also effectively lose your foot – 
Amputation (Average), as too little of it remains to function 
properly.
94-96 116-120 5 Severed Foot. Your foot goes to the great shoe store in the 
sky, departing the rest of your lower extremity in a spray of 
blood.
Gain Bleeding (2) and Stunned (2). Also, lose your foot – 
Amputation (Challenging).
97-99 121-125 5 Call Me Stumpy. Your foe cleaves through your leg, severing 
it below the knee. You consider getting a peg leg.
Gain Bleeding (3) and Stunned (3). Also, lose your leg – 
Amputation (Hard).
100 126+ D Timber! Your leg is completely or mostly severed at the thigh 
near the hip, the blade possibly even continuing its path into 
the other leg as well. Regardless, the shock and huge loss of 
blood quickly sends you to Morr’s realm.
You are not merely one leg the poorer but also quite dead.

40
flamEs & EnErGy HEad
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
01-10 01-03 T Hot Air. A wave of heat curls some of your facial hairs but you 
are otherwise unscathed.
You take a penalty of -10 to your next rolled Test.
11-20 04-06 1 Heat Wave. Your eyebrows crinkle and your face reddens 
from a close call with flaming death!
You may not take an Action on your next turns as you flinch 
from the heat.
21-25 07-09 1 My Hair! Your hair catches fire!
(If you’re bald, a hat or a beard will burn just fine instead.)
You drop anything held in your primary hand to beat the 
flames out. You can take a normal Action on your next turn.
26-30 10-15 1 Blistered Cheek. Your cheek blisters from the intense heat. You take a penalty of -10 to any Tests you make until the end 
of your next turn.
31-35 16-20 2 Beard Blaze! Your facial and/or head hair really catches, 
going up in a burst of flame.
You gain Blinded (2) and must spend your next Action 
(requiring at least one free hand) beating the blaze out.
36-40 21-25 2 Who Knew Ear Wax Burned So Well?! All you can hear is the 
sound of crackling flames!
A living proof that any kind of wax will make a good candle, 
you gain Deafened (2) and suffer a penalty of -10 to all Tests 
until the Deafened Condition has been fully removed.
41-45 26-30 2 Temporarily Blinded. Half of your face blisters. One 
particularly large blister forms over your eyelid which swells 
and throbs.
Gain Stunned (1). One eye is completely blinded (see under 
Amputated Parts) until the end of the encounter.
46-50 31-35 2 Burnt Ear. One ear chars and sizzles, leaving only ugly 
blackened remains of it.
Gain Deafened (2), with one Condition removed at the end of 
each day. Also, you suffer a penalty of -5 to your Fellowship 
whenever your crisped ear is visible.
51-55 36-40 3 Fiery Inhalation. You gasp and inadvertently inhale blistering 
air and flame, scorching your mouth and throat.
Gain Stunned (2). After removing the Stunned Conditions you 
gain Fatigued (1), as usual, except it’ll last one full week due 
to swollen airways.
56-60 41-45 3 Disfiguring Scars. Your face is forever scarred by horrible 
burns. Thankfully, you managed to squeeze your eyes shut, 
saving your sight.
You suffer a permanent penalty of 5 + 1d10/2 to your 
Fellowship.
61-65 46-50 3 Toasted Hearing Appendage. You take a blast to the side of 
your head, burning away one ear and crisping the inner ear 
as well.
You suffer the loss of one ear – Amputation (Average). Also, 
for the rest of the encounter you gain Fatigued (2) from the 
dizziness as the fluids in the loop-shaped canals in your inner 
ear temporarily boil.
66-70 51-55 3 Corneal Damage. The corneas, the transparent front part of 
your eyeballs, blister as you barely fail to close your eyes in 
time.
Gain Blinded (3). At the end of each of the next three days you 
need to pass an Average (+20) Endurance Test to remove one 
Condition. Failure makes one Blinded Condition permanent as 
your corneas scar and cloud. Any magical healing removing 
the Conditions will make the Test unnecessary.
71-75 56-60 4 Hot Lips. The lower part of your face takes terrible damage, 
burning away your lips, damaging your cheek muscles and 
scorching your tongue.
This counts as a Broken Bone (Major)  as the muscles 
controlling your lower jaw and tongue try to recover from the 
broiling. Also, you suffer a permanent penalty of -20 to your 
Fellowship whenever your disfigured lipless mouth is visible.
76-80 61-65 4 Heat Shock. A ball of flame burns your scalp to the bone, 
almost boiling your brain inside the skull.
Pass a Hard (-20) Endurance Test  or gain Unconscious from 
heat shock. If successful, instead gain Fatigued (2). You also 
suffer a Festering Wound and will never regrow your head 
hair, suffering a penalty of -10 to your Fellowship whenever 
the exposed bone of your skull becomes obvious.
81-85 66-75 4 Cooked Eye. The blast of flame sears one side of your face, 
boiling one eyeball in its orbit.
Gain Stunned (3). You also lose the eye – Amputation (Hard). 
Apart from any Fellowship loss due to the lost eye you 
suffer an additional penalty of -10 to your Fellowship due to 
extensive scarring on that side of your face.
86-90 76-80 4 Spinal Blaze. A white-hot jet of flame bores its way into 
the back of your neck, stunning your spinal cord. You hear 
strange noises inside your head as cerebrospinal fluid 
bubbles and boils!
You are temporarily paralyzed from the neck down, effectively 
gaining the Unconscious Condition except you are awake 
and aware the whole time. Roll at the beginning of each 
of your subsequent turns, needing to pass a Difficult (-10) 
Toughness Test to recover, removing the Condition.
You also contract a Festering Wound due to the deep burn.

41
flamEs & EnErGy HEad (ContinUEd)
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
91-93 81-85 5 Burned Airways. You inhale to scream out your pain as the 
fire wash over you, sucking the flames deep into your lungs…
Gain Stunned (3) and Fatigued (3). You get to roll once every 
week for the next three weeks, a Challenging (+0) Endurance 
Test, to remove one Fatigued Condition. Failure makes one 
Fatigued Condition permanent as your lungs and airways 
scar and turn fibrous and stiff. Regardless, you also contract 
Blood Rot from pneumonia as bacteria thrive in your pus-
filled airways.
94-96 86-94 5 Horrible Burns. The flesh of your head and face blackens, 
cracks and peels as it fries under the relentless energies 
unleashed by your foe! If you survive this encounter you will 
be unrecognizable as the person you once were, or even as 
a human being!
Pass a Hard (-20) Endurance Test  or gain Unconscious, 
otherwise gaining Stunned (4), Blinded (4) and Deafened (3). 
Roll an additional Challenging (+0) Endurance Test for each 
eye, ear and also your nose. Failure means you lose that part 
(see under Amputated Parts). The total loss of Fellowship for 
that cannot be less than a penalty of -30 as the scarring is 
very extensive even if individual features have survived.
97-99 95-99 5 Brain Damage. You barely manage to turn away in time to 
save your face, but the massive impact of thermal energy still 
partly cooks your brain inside your skull.
Gain Unconscious. Roll once on the Mental Corruption Table 
when you wake up. This does not lose you any Corruption 
Points nor does it count towards your Corruption Limit.
You also suffer a Festering Wound and will never regrow 
your head hair, suffering a penalty of -10 to your Fellowship 
whenever the exposed bone of your skull becomes obvious.
100 100+ D Burnt Match Look-Alike. A blast of fire reduces your head to 
a greasy cloud of smoke, leaving only the blackened stump 
of your neck. The rest of your body drops limply to the ground, 
clothes smoldering.
Your life literally just went up in a cloud of smoke!

42
flamEs & EnErGy arm
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
01-10 01-10 T Finger Warmer. Heat engulfs your hand but you manage to 
snatch it away before it becomes unbearable!
You suffer a penalty of -10 to your next rolled Test.
11-20 11-20 1 Hot-Hot-Hot! The clothes covering your arm catch fire.
(A leather wristband, arm hair, fur or any held object can also 
catch fire if you’re not wearing any clothing.)
Drop anything held in that arm so nothing impedes the 
furious waving necessary to put the fire out. You may still 
take a normal Action on your next turn.
21-25 21-25 1 Feel The Burn! Flames lick your upper arm, sending a blast of 
hot air into your face.
Gain Blinded (1).
26-30 26-40 1 Blistered Hand. Blisters form on the back of your hand, 
popping and leaking fluid.
You suffer a penalty of -10 to any Test using that arm until the 
end of your next turn.
31-35 41-45 2 A Light Toasting. Flames roll along your arm from wrist to 
shoulder, passing too quickly to burn deeply, still leaving your 
arm red and throbbing.
You suffer a penalty of -10 to any Tests using that arm for the 
rest of the encounter.
36-40 46-50 2 Burnt Fingers. A wash of flame catches the outer digits on 
the ulnar side of your hand, severely burning them.
Pass a Challenging (+0) Endurance Test  or drop anything 
held in that hand. Also, 1d10/5 fingers will be useless (see 
under Amputated Parts) for one week.
41-45 51-55 2 Flame-Grilled Shoulder. Fire crisps the skin over the shoulder 
blade, red and bleeding meat visible through the cracks.
Gain Stunned (1). You also contract a Minor Infection due to 
the extensive skin loss.
46-50 56-60 2 Lightly Charred Appendage. The skin of your palm peels off 
in blackened shreds, exposing seeping red muscle and white 
tendons.
Your hand is useless (see under Amputated Parts) for the rest 
of the encounter.
51-55 61-75 3 Skin Peel. Most of your lower arm is covered in blisters that 
quickly start joining each other in large swathes of dead 
skin. It begins to come off in large shreds, exposing the raw 
tissues underneath.
Gain Stunned (1). You also suffer the effects of a Torn Muscle 
(Minor) as your skin tries to grow back.
56-60 76-80 3 BBQ Pit. The smell of burnt hair surrounds you as flames 
torch your armpit. This unlucky location causes great 
discomfort, with a combination of huge blisters and exposed 
seeping flesh making any movement of the arm too painful 
to contemplate as newly formed crusts keep cracking and 
bleeding.
Gain Stunned (1). The arm is useless (see under Amputated 
Parts) for one week, until enough new skin has formed.
61-65 81-85 3 Blackened Finger. You yank your hand away from a red-hot 
blast, thinking yourself lucky until you notice the one finger 
that didn’t make it out of the danger zone in time…
You lose one finger – Amputation (Easy). The blackened twig-
like remains of it soon fall off of itself.
66-70 86-90 3 Shoulder Impact. A tongue of flame impacts your shoulder, 
burning your deltoid muscle deeply and causing flash burns 
to that side of your face.
Gain Blinded (2) and suffer a Torn Muscle (Major).
71-75 91-95 4 Biceps BBQ. Fire engulfs your upper arm, eating away at 
muscle and tendons.
Gain Stunned (2) and suffer a Torn Muscle (Major).
76-80 96-109 4 Debridement Case! Your elbow joint suffers the full wrath of 
your foe’s deadly energies, muscle attachments and tendons 
crisping and curling under the assault.
Your arm is useless (see under Amputated Parts) for the rest 
of the encounter. Afterwards it’ll count as having suffered a 
Torn Muscle (Major). However, unless you receive Surgery 
within one week to painfully debride (cut away dead tissue) 
and straighten contracted muscles and tendons, only partial 
healing will be possible.
81-85 110-115 4 Exploded Hand. Your hand takes the brunt of a fiery impact, 
sending fingers and shreds of charred flesh flying.
Roll 1d10/5 plus one for the number of fingers lost – 
Amputation (Average). The hand will be useless for the rest 
of the encounter, regardless of how many fingers still remain.
86-90 116-120 4 Charbroiled Arm. Flames charbroil the length of your arm, 
fusing muscle, tendons and remains of clothing into a 
charred mess. Pain quickly fades to numbness as free nerve 
endings in the skin are devoured by the fire.
Gain Stunned (2) and contract a Festering Wound. You also 
suffer a Torn Muscle (Major) except only partial healing is 
possible due to the amount of lost muscle and the stiff scar 
tissue that will replace it.
91-93 121-125 5 Blackened Stump. A jet of fire reduces your hand to a brittle 
husk of its former self. The better part of it crumbles to ash, 
leaving a black lump with a few metacarpal bone ends 
sticking out.
Gain Stunned (3). You lose the hand – Amputation 
(Challenging).

43
flamEs & EnErGy arm (ContinUEd)
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
94-96 126-130 5 Amputation By Fire!  A river of flame surges over your arm, 
slicing through your upper arm like a cutting torch, not that 
you would know what a cutting torch is, living as you do in a 
regrettably low-tech fantasy world.
Pass a Challenging (+0) Endurance Test or gain Unconscious, 
otherwise gaining Prone and Stunned (4). You lose the arm – 
Amputation (Difficult).
97-99 131-135 5 Compartment Syndrome. Although looking rather nasty, 
the burn wound to your arm is about to turn even nastier! 
Interstitial pressure starts building up inside a major fascial 
compartment due to swelling and intramuscular edema. 
Insufficient blood supply leads to oxygen deprivation and 
necrosis!
Gain Stunned (3). The arm is useless (see under Amputated 
Parts). If you don’t receive Surgery within 48 hours to open 
up the compartment and relieve pressure you’ll lose the arm 
permanently and contract Blood Rot as gangrene sets in. If 
you receive successful Surgery the injury will count as a 
Torn Muscle (Major), although only partial healing will be 
possible.
100 136+ D Conflagration! A ball of fire envelops half your body. You are 
thrown to one side, the arm a shriveled stump and the whole 
side of your body charred black.
You’re toast…literally!

44
flamEs & EnErGy Body
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
01-10 01-10 T Hot Enough For You? Body hair crinkle from the extreme heat, 
but you are otherwise unharmed.
You suffer a penalty of -10 to your next rolled Test.
11-20 11-20 1 Close Call. You stumble backwards from a wave of heat and 
flame.
You may not take an Action on your next turn.
21-25 21-25 1 Duck And Cover! Flames start licking your clothing but you 
manage to put them out by the old expedient of rolling on 
the ground.
Gain Prone. Should you choose not to go Prone you instead 
gain Ablaze (1).
26-30 26-30 1 Heat Rash! The flames raise blisters on your torso and set 
your clothing to smoking dangerously.
You suffer a penalty of -10 to all Tests taken until the end of 
your next turn.
31-35 31-35 1 Heartburn. A ball of fire impacts your belly, the flames 
thankfully diverging to the sides rather than shooting up into 
your face.
Gain Stunned (1).
36-40 36-40 2 Twisted Back. You attempt to twist away from the ball of flame 
approaching and badly wrench your back in the process.
For the next month you gain Stunned (1) any time you take a 
hit to the Body Location.
41-45 41-45 2 Burning Clothes. Your clothes catch fire! Gain Ablaze (1), or gain one additional level if you are already 
Ablaze.
46-50 46-50 2 Burning Equipment. Not just your clothes but your gear is 
starting to smolder!
Gain Ablaze (1), or gain one additional level if you are already 
Ablaze.
If you are wearing anything flammable, like booze, gunpowder 
charges or paper, you lose it and gain an additional level of 
Ablaze. If not, the GM decides on some other item of gear 
worn or carried that gets destroyed or damaged.
51-55 51-55 2 I Didn’t Inhale! A tongue of flame lashes you chest, some of 
it flashing up into your face, getting inhaled.
Gain Stunned (1). After removing the Stunned Conditions you 
gain Fatigued (1), as usual, except it’ll last 1d10 days as your 
upper airways swell up.
56-60 56-60 3 Pectoral Pain! Your chest muscles blacken and sizzle under 
the impact of a jet of fire! Your pectorals happen to be a 
vital part of your shoulder musculature, so you’ll find it both 
painful and difficult to perform those heroic mighty swings 
needed to vanquish your foes!
Roll randomly for side, left or right. You suffer a Torn Muscle 
(Minor) for the Arm Location on that side.
61-65 61-65 3 Belly Burn. Your abdominal muscles are badly burned, 
leaving you doubled over and unable to straighten up 
properly for the pain.
For the rest of the encounter you’ll have to pass a Challenging 
(+0) Endurance Test at the beginning of each of your turns or 
suffer a penalty of -20 to all physical Actions and Tests as 
well as halved M for the rest of that turn.
66-70 66-70 3 Scorcher! A rapid transfer of thermal energy heats up your 
chest armor to uncomfortable levels!
If you were wearing metal armor on your Body Location, 
such as chainmail or plate, you suffer a penalty of -20 to 
any Tests taken for the rest of the encounter or until you’ve 
removed the armor.
If you were not wearing metal armor on your Body, count 
this result as the “Explosive Impact!” result instead.
71-75 71-75 3 Explosive Impact! The rapid expansion of superheated air 
causes a detonation that sends you flying!
Gain Prone and suffer a Broken Bone (Minor).
76-80 76-80 4 Do You Feel The Burn? The fire catches you low, setting fire 
to your clothes, most specifically your pants! You feel the 
heat start to build up in some very uncomfortable areas…
Gain Stunned (1). Also gain Ablaze (1), or gain one additional 
level if you are already Ablaze.
The damage to your dignity is immeasurably greater as your 
pants now consist only of the lower part of the leggings. 
Performing various bodily functions, as well as procreating, 
will be difficult and uncomfortable for a while due to heavy 
blistering both front and back.
81-85 81-85 4 Sizzling Muscles. Fire washes over you. Whether hit to the 
front or in your back, the flames burn chest muscles and/
or shoulder muscles vital to your arm and shoulder function.
Gain Stunned (2). Both your arms also gain a Torn Muscle 
(Major).
You contract a Minor Infection due to heavy loss of skin.
86-90 86-90 4 Spinal Burn. You take the impact in your back, against the 
lower spine. The heat temporarily stuns your spinal cord and 
you collapse as you lose all control and feeling in both legs!
Gain Prone, as well as Ablaze (1), or one additional level 
if you are already Ablaze. Both your legs are useless (see 
under Amputated Parts). At the end of each turn you may roll 
a Hard (-20) Endurance Test to regain use of your legs.
Apart from that, any Athletics Test you take to remove 
Ablaze Conditions will be one level harder while your legs 
are out of action.

45
flamEs & EnErGy Body (ContinUEd)
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
91-93 91-95 5 Fried Ribcage. You take a ball of fire straight to the chest. 
Your breastbone cracks and turns brittle from the heat, the 
cartilage connecting it to your ribs burning and sizzling. 
As the sternum is what basically connects your ribcage 
together this severely impacts your ability to both breathe 
and move properly!
Gain Prone and Stunned (3). You also suffer a Broken Bone 
(Major), except you automatically fail any rolls for long-term 
penalties.
94-96 96-110 5 Broiled Lungs. The fiery impact cooks your lungs straight 
through your thoracic wall. You also inhale some of the 
flames, causing your airways to start swelling and scarring.
Gain Stunned (3) and Fatigued (3). You get to roll once 
every week for the next three weeks, a Challenging (+0) 
Endurance Test, to remove one Fatigued Condition. Failure 
makes one Fatigued Condition permanent as your lungs and 
airways scar and turn fibrous and stiff. Regardless, you also 
contract Blood Rot from pneumonia as bacteria thrive in 
your pus-filled airways.
97-99 111-115 5 Flash Cooked Intestines.  A white-hot blast blows through 
your abdominal wall, flash cooking several yards of your 
intestines. You are hurled backwards with a large smoking 
hole in your belly!
Gain Prone, Broken and Fatigued (3). Your M is reduced to 1 
and you cannot perform any physical Actions at all. Unless 
you receive magical healing equivalent to Surgery* within 24 
hours you’ll expire, otherwise suffering a permanent penalty 
of -15 to T and S as well as -2 to W plus a significant weight 
loss due to your now severely shortened digestive tract.
100 116+ D Explosive Conflagration! A huge ball of fire impacts your 
chest. For a brief moment flames shoot out of your mouth, 
then the resulting explosive conflagration engulfs you totally, 
leaving little but a scorched skull and some broiled limbs 
lying amidst a couple of blackened ribs and vertebrae.
“Ashes to ashes” certainly describes your current state 
rather well, don’t you think?
 * See page 4 on magical healing for which spells and prayers can count as Surgery, but generally speaking any healing spell or Miracle 
capable of recovering multiple lost Wounds is considered equivalent to Surgery.

46
flamEs & EnErGy lEG
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
01-10 01-10 T Jump! You are forced to make an undignified leap to avoid 
the river of flame passing along the ground underneath you.
You take your next Action last in the turn.
11-20 11-20 T Outch-Outch-Outch! Your footwear briefly catches on fire.
(Body hair, fur, leg bangles or pretty much anything will do 
for the unshod.)
Your M is halved on your next turn as you do a little dance to 
put the fire out.
21-25 21-25 1 Foot Blister. The heat causes a huge fluid-filled blister to 
form under the sole of your foot.
You suffer a penalty of -10 to any Agility Tests you take until 
the blister pops in 1d10 turns.
26-30 26-40 1 Licked By Flame!  Flames lick your leg, crinkling hairs and 
charring clothing.
You suffer a penalty of -10 to all Tests taken until the end of 
your next turn.
31-35 41-45 1 Heat Blast. A blast of heat causes your thigh to cramp and 
twitch, the flesh reddening and the skin peeling.
You suffer a penalty of -1 to your M and -10 to Agility for the 
rest of the encounter.
36-40 46-50 1 Baked Shoe. Your footwear takes a grilling, causing it to fail 
just as you put your foot down. The foot goes one way, the 
sole of the footwear another!
Gain Prone. If you’re not wearing any footwear you also gain 
the effects of the “Foot Blister” result.
41-45 51-55 2 A Proper Peeler! Dead skin and flesh peel from your lower 
leg, leaving exposed red tissue that seeps and sticks to 
everything, forming crusts that constantly crack and bleed.
You suffer a penalty of -2 to your M and -20 to any Agility 
Tests for one week, until some skin has started growing back.
46-50 56-60 2 Yikes! A blast of flame passes between your legs, your inner 
thighs reddening and blistering.
Gain Stunned (1).
51-55 61-65 2 Burnt Leg. The outside of your thigh roasts from a glancing 
hit by a ball of fire.
You suffer a Torn Muscle (Minor).
56-60 66-70 2 Lost Toe. You only barely snatch your foot out of the way as 
a blast craters the ground/sets the floor on fire/ blackens the 
paving stones…or maybe not entirely out of the way?
You lose one toe – Amputation (Easy).
61-65 71-75 3 Bathed In Fire. Flames wash over your legs, then start licking 
up over your torso as well, as they take hold on your clothes.
Gain Ablaze (1), or gain one additional level if you are already 
Ablaze.
66-70 76-80 3 Burnt Foot. The upper side of your foot is torched, skin and 
tendons crinkling under the jet of flame.
You gain Stunned (2) and suffer a Torn Muscle (Minor). You 
also contract a Minor Infection due to the deep burn and 
loss of skin.
71-75 81-85 3 Broken Ankle. You try to leap aside as a ball of fire causes 
a glancing hit, the near miss throwing you to the side. Your 
ankle snaps as you land badly!
Gain Stunned (1) and Prone. You also suffer a Broken Bone 
(Minor).
76-80 86-90 4 Fire Below! Flames engulf your whole leg, setting fire 
to clothing and footwear. Skin and muscle start charring, 
shreds of blackened tissue and clothing sailing off on the 
wind.
Gain Ablaze (1), or gain one additional level if you are already 
Ablaze. You also suffer a Torn Muscle (Major).
81-85 91-95 4 Exploded Foot. Your foot is punched out from under you, 
causing an undignified crash as you tumble to the ground. 
When you look down at the foot it seems to be distinctly 
smaller than before…
Gain Prone. You lose 1d10/2 toes – Amputation (Average).
86-90 96-105 4 Debridement Case! The back of your leg suffers severe 
burns, the large hamstrings muscles and the tendons at the 
back of the knee crisping and curling as they are eaten away 
by the ferocious flames.
Gain Stunned (2) and Prone. Your leg is useless (see under 
Amputated Parts) for the rest of the encounter. Afterwards 
it’ll count as having suffered a Torn Muscle (Major). However, 
unless you receive Surgery within one week to painfully 
debride (cut away dead tissue) and straighten contracted 
muscles and tendons, only partial healing will be possible.
91-93 106-115 4 Grilled Calf. Flames eat away a large part of your calf, 
leaving your lower leg both blackened and markedly thinner 
than before.
You gain Stunned (2). You also suffer a Torn Muscle (Major), 
except only partial healing is possible due to extensive 
tissue loss.
94-96 116-120 5 Burnt-Off Leg. Your knee gets in the way of deadly elemental 
energies and pays the price. For a moment your lower leg 
remains attached to the upper, and then they part ways in 
a puff of ash!
Gain Stunned (3) and Prone. You lose the leg – Amputation 
(Hard). The charred and skinless stump also causes you to 
contract a Festering Wound.

47
flamEs & EnErGy lEG (ContinUEd)
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
97-99 121-125 5 Compartment Syndrome. Your thigh takes a proper 
toasting, leaving it looking over-cooked and swollen. 
Interstitial pressure starts building up inside a major fascial 
compartment due to swelling and intramuscular edema. 
Insufficient blood supply leads to oxygen deprivation and 
necrosis!
Gain Stunned (3) and Prone. The leg is useless (see under 
Amputated Parts). If you don’t receive Surgery within 48 
hours to open up the compartment and relieve pressure 
you’ll lose the leg permanently and contract Blood Rot as 
gangrene sets in. If you receive successful Surgery the 
injury will count as a Torn Muscle (Major), although only 
partial healing will be possible.
100 126+ D Kablooie! Your leg is completely blown off at the hip by a 
blast of flame, the fire eating the flesh away from a large 
part of your pelvis. Boiling blood ruptures the roasted major 
arteries in your abdomen, causing an explosion of steaming 
blood as you drop to the ground, both broiled and shredded!
You are broiled, shredded, unsightly and very much dead.

48
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
01-10 01-03 T You Flinched! Your opponent’s stab passes so close to your 
eye you’re certain you must have lost a couple of eyelashes!
If you fail a Challenging (+0) Cool Test your next Action may 
not be an attack.
11-20 04-06 1 Pricked Cheek. A shallow stab wound appears in your cheek, 
courtesy of your wily enemy.
You suffer a penalty of -10 to your next rolled Test as you 
contemplate how close to your eye that one came.
21-25 07-09 1 Split Nose Tip. The tip of your opponent’s weapon neatly 
bisects the very end of your nose. You find this very upsetting.
You become so enraged you suffer a penalty of -10 to all 
Tests until the beginning of your next turn. Also, the resulting 
prominent scab lowers your Fellowship by -5 until it falls off 
in a week’s time.
26-30 10-15 1 Slashed Chin. The point of your enemy’s weapon scores a 
line of red across your chin, bisecting any beard you may 
have.
You stumble backwards and must pass an Average (+20) 
Athletics Test or gain Prone.
31-35 16-20 2 Ripped Ear. Your foe’s thrust glances along the line of your 
jaw, barely missing your carotid artery before tearing into 
your ear, removing a good piece of it, as well as any earring 
you were wearing.
Gain Bleeding (1) and a -5 penalty to Fellowship whenever 
your mangled ear is obvious. A nice hat or a new haircut is 
an obvious solution to hide your embarrassment.
36-40 21-25 2 Sliced Eyelid. Your eye barely escapes serious harm but your 
eyelid is lacerated.
You gain Blinded (2).
41-45 26-30 2 Forehead Stab. You manage to duck enough to prevent 
having an eye put out, but the point of your enemy’s weapon 
still crunches into your forehead. Luckily the penetration is 
shallow, but like most head injuries it bleeds profusely, blood 
pouring into your eyes.
You gain Bleeding (1) and Blinded (2), the latter of which 
cannot be removed until the Bleeding Condition has been 
removed.
46-50 31-35 2 Vocal Apparatus Injury. A potentially lethal stab to the neck 
fails to go deep enough. However, either your vocal cords or 
the recurrent laryngeal nerve controlling them is damaged. 
Your voice will forever more sound hoarse and rasping.
You gain Bleeding (2). Also, due to your altered voice quality 
you will suffer a permanent penalty of -5 to any  Fellowship 
Tests requiring smooth talking.
51-55 36-40 3 Scalp Wound. Your foe’s weapon scrapes along your skull, 
tearing a long hideous furrow through your scalp. Your whole 
head is soon covered with blood.
You gain Bleeding (2) and Blinded (2). If you ask your GM 
nicely he may allow the hair along the scar to come out pure 
white, giving you a dashing white streak to set you off from 
the common crowd.
56-60 41-45 3 Neck Vein. Your foe prepares to celebrate your imminent 
demise as he stabs through a blood vessel in your neck. 
Luckily the gush of blood is the dark red flow of a large vein 
rather than the bright crimson spurts of a severed carotid 
artery.
You gain Bleeding (3).
61-65 46-50 3 Stabbed In The Face!  Your foe’s weapon crunches into your 
face, penetrating into the sinuses of your upper jaw bone 
near the nose. You’ll have a heck of a scar!
You gain 
Stunned (2). Also, you need to pass an Average (+20) 
Endurance Test or contract a Festering Wound.
66-70 51-55 3 Stabbed In The Mouth!  Your opponent’s thrust pierces your 
cheek and shatters several teeth as it goes through.
Lose 1d10 teeth – Amputation (Challenging).
71-75 56-60 4 Lacerated Neck Muscles.  Your foe’s weapon slices into the 
muscles on the side of your neck. The resulting imbalance in 
the amount of working muscle fibers makes your head feel 
decidedly wobbly on your shoulders.
Trying to keep your head moving in the direction you want 
it as you duck and weave through the battle is distracting 
enough to cause you to count as Fatigued (1). Also gain 
Bleeding (1).
76-80 61-65 4 Split Jaw. Your evilly grinning enemy slams his weapon 
into the side of your face near the angle of your lower jaw, 
splitting the bone near the hinge of the mouth.
You suffer a Broken Bone (Minor) . Also, your lower jaw is 
now disturbingly unstable and so distracting that you suffer 
a -10 penalty to all Tests until you take an Action to stuff your 
beard, handkerchief or other suitable article into your mouth 
to bite down on in order to hold your jaw in place.
81-85 66-75 4 Ear Puncture. Your opponent, by intent or accident, thrusts 
his weapon into your ear. Its tip temporarily jams in the bony 
parts of the ear canal before being withdrawn, but your inner 
ear is quite ruined.
You gain Stunned (1), the subsequent Fatigued Condition 
gained after removing the Stunned Condition explained by 
your now disturbed sense of balance due to the damage to 
your inner ear. Also, you lose the ear – Amputation (Easy).
86-90 76-80 4 Ruined Mouth. Your unreasonably mean foe rams his weapon 
into your mouth, shattering teeth and severing your tongue. 
At least now he doesn’t have to listen to your taunts.
You gain Stunned (1) and Bleeding (2). Also, lose 1d10 teeth 
and your tongue – Amputation (Challenging).
91-93 81-85 5 Pierced Eye. A malicious poke in the eye bursts your eyeball! You gain Stunned (2) and Blinded (3). Also, lose the eye – 
Amputation (Hard).
piErCinG HEad

49
piErCinG HEad (ContinUEd)
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
94-96 86-94 5 Deep Neck Wound. A deep thrust to the neck tears through 
blood vessels and windpipe. You start to choke on your own 
blood in a most dramatic (and for you foe highly entertaining) 
manner.
You gain Stunned (1), Fatigued (2) and Bleeding (2), the latter 
of which requires Surgery to remove. Also, due to damaged 
vocal cords you’ll suffer a permanent penalty of -10 to any 
Fellowship Tests requiring smooth talking.
97-99 95-99 5 Brain Damage. Your enemy’s blade crunches through your 
temple, penetrating to the brain. The resulting cerebral 
trauma comes with disturbing changes to your personality.
You gain Unconscious. There is a 50% chance the thrust went 
through your eye socket rather than the temple, in which case 
you also lose an eye (see under Amputated Parts). Roll once 
on the Mental Corruption Table when you wake up. This does 
not lose you any Corruption Points nor does it count towards 
your Corruption Limit. You must also pass a Challenging (+0) 
Endurance Test or contract Blood Rot due to meningitis from 
the bacteria deposited inside your skull by the weapon.
100 100+ D Split Open! Pick a spot – either neck, mouth or the bridge 
of your nose between your eyes. That’s the entry point. The 
exit point is the back of your head. There; we have now 
determined the path of your victorious foe’s weapon!
You couldn’t possibly be any more dead.

50
piErCinG arm
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
01-10 01-10 T A Close Shave. Your enemy’s weapon splits a couple of the 
hairs on the back of your hand.
You must pass a Challenging (+0) Cool Test or suffer a 
penalty of -10 to your next rolled Test as you stare at the 
offending hairs.
11-20 11-20 1 Slashed Hand. The tip of your foe’s weapon slashes across 
the back of your hand. All the important tendons survive but 
you lose your grip on whatever you held in that hand as you 
yank it away.
You must pass a Challenging (+0) Endurance Test or drop 
whatever you held in that hand. Even if you succeed you may 
not use that hand to attack as your next Action.
21-25 21-25 1 Sliced Skin. A poorly aimed swipe still parts skin, leaving 
glistening muscle tissue and tendons exposed and twitching. 
An unnerving sight!
You suffer a penalty of -10 to all Tests using that arm until you 
pass an Average (+20) Cool Test.
26-30 26-40 1 Pricked Bicep. A stab to your upper arm parts muscle fibers, 
weakening the limb.
You suffer a Torn Muscle (Minor).
31-35 41-45 2 Pierced Deltoid. A quick thrust to the upper part of your arm 
damages the deltoid muscle and causes your hand to spasm 
as the large nerve descending from the brachial plexus is 
temporarily stunned from the blow.
You suffer a Torn Muscle (Minor). Also, gain Bleeding (1) and 
pass a Hard (-20) Endurance Test to avoid dropping whatever 
you held in that hand.
36-40 46-50 2 Injured Hand. Your foe’s well-aimed weapon drives into the 
meat of your palm, causing leaking blood to make your grip 
unreliably slippery.
For the rest of the encounter, at the beginning of each of your 
turns, roll 1d10/2 and subtract one. Then treat the hand as 
having lost that many fingers (see under Amputated Parts) 
during that turn only.
41-45 51-55 2 Perforated Muscle. Your enemy rams his weapon clear 
through your upper arm, piercing cleanly through one of the 
large muscles.
You suffer a Torn Muscle (Major).
46-50 56-60 2 Pierced Shoulder. Your foe stabs into your shoulder, his 
weapon grinding against bone as it goes in.
You suffer a Torn Muscle (Minor) and gain Bleeding (2).
51-55 61-75 3 Lost Finger. A thrust to the hand wrecks a finger joint or 
two. Either that or it severs several of the tendons inside the 
hand controlling the fingers. Regardless, you lose all finger 
function, whether the finger in question stays attached or is 
now rolling on the ground.
You lose 1d10/5 fingers – Amputation (Easy).
56-60 76-80 3 Stab To The Inside Of The Elbow. Your enemy’s weapon sinks 
into the soft tissues on the inside of the elbow…you know, 
the large artery and important nerves and stuff? Those soft 
tissues?
You suffer a Torn Muscle (Major) and gain Bleeding (2).
61-65 81-85 3 Impaled Hand. Your opponent cleanly spits either your hand 
or your wrist on the end of his weapon. Ouch!
Your hand is useless (see under Amputated Parts). For 
healing purposes it counts as a Broken Bone (Minor) except 
you automatically fail any test for long-term effects.
66-70
86-90 3 Pierced Forearm. Your lower arm is impaled, the weapon 
passing between the radius and the ulna (the two long bones 
in the forearm). Luckily for you, the edges of the weapon 
passed between most of the nerves and blood vessels on its 
path, rather than severing them.
You gain Stunned (2) and Bleeding (1). You hand is useless for 
the rest of the encounter (see under Amputated Parts) and 
you also suffer a Torn Muscle (Minor).
71-75 91-95 4 Ripped-Up Arm. The tip of your merciless enemy’s weapon 
drives into the biceps muscle near your elbow, ramming 
deep and then tearing a path up along the bone almost all the 
way to your shoulder. It opens up a long, deep and hideous 
gash along the length of your upper arm. Horrid!
You gain Stunned (2) and Bleeding (2). Your arm is useless for 
the rest of the encounter and you also suffer a Torn Muscle 
(Major) except only partial healing is possible without 
Surgery.
76-80 96-109 4 Split Elbow. Your foe’s weapon slams into your elbow, 
severing the head of one of the long bones making up the 
joint and effectively jamming the whole elbow. Painful!
You gain Stunned (2) and suffer a Broken Bone (Major).
81-85 110-115 4 Clipped Lung. Your opponent thrusts deep into your shoulder, 
his weapon going in under the collar bone, clipping the top of 
your lung which partly collapses. You find yourself suddenly 
short of breath.
Gain Fatigued (2). Because it’s only a rather minor 
pneumothorax you’ll remove one Fatigued Condition each 
week spontaneously as the lung inflates itself back again.
86-90 116-120 4 Ruined Hand. Your adversary messily impales your hand, and 
not in a nice way. Rather than slipping between them, the 
edges of his point split most of the metatarsals making up the 
palm of your hand in half, taking with them every tendon and 
nerve controlling your fingers.
Roll 1d10. If the result is 5 or more, you lose the entire hand, 
otherwise that is how many fingers you lose. Amputation 
(Average).

51
piErCinG arm (ContinUEd)
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
91-93 121-125 5 Severe Shoulder Injury.  Your foe drives his weapon clean 
through your shoulder, wrecking joint, muscles, nerves 
and blood vessels on its path before being stopped by your 
shoulder blade.
Gain Stunned (3) and Bleeding (2). Your arm is useless. If your 
receive Surgery within a week it’ll count as a Torn Muscle 
(Major) except only partial healing is possible; otherwise the 
arm remains useless (see under Amputated Parts).
94-96 126-130 5 Wrecked Forearm. Your brutal antagonist’s weapon impales 
your forearm, severing the long radius bone as well as 
important blood vessels and nerves. The remaining long 
bone, the fibula, then also snaps as your opponent yanks 
out his weapon with a cruel twist of his wrist. This leaves 
half your lower arm dangling while the blood spurts. Very 
distressing!
Gain Stunned (3) and Bleeding (3). You lose your hand – 
Amputation (Challenging).
97-99 131-135 5 Stabbed In The Armpit! Your sneaky nemesis manages 
to slam his weapon in under your arm, severing the large 
brachial artery. Have you made your peace with Morr?
Gain Stunned (2) and Bleeding (3), the latter of which requires 
Surgery to remove. Should you fail to bleed to death the arm 
will remain useless due to a wrecked brachial nerve plexus 
(see under Amputated Parts).
100 136+ D Shish Kebab! Your triumphant enemy’s weapon enters 
through or under your shoulder, driving deep into your 
body, impaling heart and lungs. The crimson deluge as he 
withdraws his weapon is most impressive!
You expire with a whimper, spitted like a lamb but not nearly 
as cute.

52
piErCinG Body
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
01-10 01-10 T A Mere Prick! Your grandfather’s pocket watch, a belt buckle, 
a small book of Sigmarite hymns or some other possibly 
valuable object took most of the blow, and you get away with 
merely the tiniest prick, causing a single drop of blood to well 
up from the tiny puncture.
If on your next turn wish to do anything but attack the foe 
who inflicted this hit you’ll have to first pass an Easy (+40) 
Cool Test.
11-20 11-20 1 One To The Chest. The Human (or Elf, or Dwarf, or Halfling) 
chest wall is actually quite thick, easily saving you from a 
rather lackluster thrust.
You flinch from the sudden pain and suffer a penalty of -10 to 
your next rolled Test.
21-25 21-25 1 One To The Belly. The Human (or Elf, or Dwarf, but particularly 
Halfling!) abdominal wall is actually quite thick, easily saving 
you from a rather mediocre stab on behalf of your erstwhile 
opponent.
You say “Ooomph!” and suffer a penalty of -10 to all Tests 
until the beginning of your next turn.
26-30 26-30 1 Widened Bellybutton. You look down to see that your foe has 
just significantly widened up your bellybutton. If you were 
equipped with an “outie” it has now been transformed into 
an “innie”.
You stumble backwards and gain Prone.
31-35 31-35 1 Nicked Collarbone. A hasty thrust takes a chip out of your 
collarbone near the sternum.
Roll randomly for side, left or right. On your next turn you 
cannot perform any attack with that arm and suffer a -10 
penalty to all other Tests.
36-40 36-40 2 Rib Rake. Your enemy tries to ram his weapon between your 
ribs but hits one of them square on. The tip rakes along it, 
tearing flesh and skin.
Gain Bleeding (1).
41-45 41-45 2 Hip Strike. Your opponent’s weapon tears a red trench along 
the bony crest of your hip, leaving yellowish-white bone 
visible.
Gain Stunned (1).
46-50 46-50 2 Pierced Bladder. Clear yellow urine drips from your 
adversary’s weapon as he withdraws it from your body. 
He just punctured your bladder! A faint smell of ammonia 
spreads around you.
Gain Stunned (2). Fortunately for you, urine is mostly sterile so 
you only contract a Minor Infection from this violation of your 
bodily integrity. Also, until the wound has closed in a week or 
so you are prone to leaking, which reduces your Fellowship 
by -10 whenever you are near anyone with a sense of smell.
51-55 51-55 2 The Gall Of It!  Your foe’s weapon drives into the upper right 
quadrant of your abdomen, lacerating the gall bladder and 
spilling its contents into your abdominal cavity.
Gain Stunned (2) and Prone as you vomit violently. Also, you 
contract a Festering Wound.
56-60 56-60 3 Pierced Lung. The strike takes you just under the collarbone, 
piercing the top of your lung which partly deflates as blood 
and air enters the pleural space between lung and chest wall. 
You start gasping for air.
Gain Fatigued (2) which drops to Fatigued (1) after the end of 
the encounter. Because it’s only a rather minor pneumothorax 
you’ll get to remove the last Fatigued Condition after one 
week as the lung inflates itself back again.
61-65 61-65 3 Collapsed Lung. Your foe drives his weapon in between your 
ribs, ripping into one lung which collapses. You find yourself 
desperately short of breath.
Gain Fatigued (3). For healing purposes, count as Torn Muscle 
(Major), with partial healing reducing your Conditions from 
Fatigued (3) to Fatigued (1) which will be removed once fully 
healed.
66-70 66-70 3 Groin Job! Your unspeakably evil enemy rams his weapon 
into the many and vulnerable blood vessels where thigh 
meets abdomen, the area also known as your groin. Very 
bloody, very painful!
Gain Bleeding (2) and Stunned (2). There is much wincing 
among the witnesses to your misfortune.
71-75 71-75 3 Internal Bleeding. The tip of your antagonist’s weapon 
pierces your liver or spleen, depending on whether he saw his 
opening against your right or left upper abdominal quadrant. 
The inflicted internal bleeding could well be your doom!
Gain Bleeding (1) which can only be removed through Surgery. 
Because the spleen is an important part of your immune 
system there is a 50% chance you’ll lose the Resistance 
(Disease) Talent, if you have it.
76-80 76-80 4 Punctured Intestine. Your foe takes all the fun out of your 
life by ramming his weapon into your gut, slicing up your 
intestines and spilling fecal matter into your abdominal cavity.
Gain Stunned (2) and Prone. Also, you contract Blood Rot. You 
can’t recover 2 of your lost Wounds until you’ve had Surgery.
81-85 81-85 4 Sucking Chest Wound. Your opponent plunges his weapon 
deep into your chest. You suffer what is called a tension 
pneumothorax, meaning your lung collapses as air enters the 
pleural space between lung and chest wall, each breath you 
try to take causing further air to enter but not get out as the 
edges of the wound act as a valve. As air builds up it starts 
obstructing the workings of the other lung and heart.
You gain Fatigued (1), gaining another level at the end of each 
of your subsequent turns. When you have reached Fatigued 
(10) you expire. This accumulation can only be stopped using 
Surgery. If successful Surgery is applied your Fatigued 
Condition is immediately reduced to Fatigued (3). For healing 
purposes, count as Torn Muscle (Major) with partial healing 
reducing your Condition from Fatigued (3) to Fatigued (1) 
which will be removed once fully healed.

53
piErCinG Body (ContinUEd)
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
86-90 86-90 4 Torn Diaphragm. Your adversary rams his weapon into your 
solar plexus, rupturing the diaphragm muscles that are your 
main breathing musculature, also damaging your abdominal 
aorta. It’s even odds as to whether you die from suffocation 
or blood loss!
Gain Fatigued (4) and Bleeding (2), the latter of which cannot 
be removed without Surgery. Should you fail to bleed to death, 
then for healing purposes it’ll count as a Torn Muscle (Major) 
with partial healing reducing your Condition from Fatigued (4) 
to Fatigued (2), but full healing still leaving you permanently 
Fatigued (1).
91-93 91-95 5 Punctured Kidney. The blow punches through a couple of 
floating ribs in your side to lacerate a kidney. This results in 
massive blood loss as the kidney’s job is to filtrate your entire 
blood volume over and over again. You’re in trouble!
Gain Stunned (2) and Bleeding (3), the latter of which cannot 
be removed without Surgery.
94-96 96-110 5 Broken Heart. A straight thrust to the middle of your chest 
takes off a fragment of your breastbone. What you’re about to 
discover, to your great detriment, is that the fragment pierced 
the pericardial sac surrounding your heart.
Gain Stunned (3). Every turn for the rest of the encounter there 
is a 10% chance the beating of your heart will migrate the 
fragment to where it’ll lacerate your heart muscle, causing 
instant death. Should you survive the encounter you’ll only 
have to roll once every day. Removing the fragment will 
require Surgery, which will count as resolving an internal 
issue, complete with associated risks, as per described 
under the Surgery Talent.
97-99 111-115 5 The Old Thrust And Twist!  Your opponent slams his weapon 
into your belly, then twists it cruelly with a flick of his wrist to 
let air into the wound and break the suction of your abdominal 
muscles clamping around the blade, before tearing it out in a 
spray of blood and other more disgusting tissues.
Umm…no, that is not survivable. If you’re out of Fate Points 
you may spend a Resilience Point instead, to twist away 
barely in time and take the foe’s weapon into your side 
instead of straight into your gut. With your abdominal wall 
badly ripped but the abdominal cavity un-pierced, the effect 
would then be that you gain Prone, Stunned (3) and Bleeding 
(1) instead of a messy death. If the GM is nice your foe will 
still think you’re dying and turn his attention elsewhere.
100 116+ D Impaled! In one side and out the other.  Your foe has to pull 
mightily to free his weapon, but you just can’t seem to care 
as your vital organs were in the way.
You leave this life, with a very impressive pool of blood left 
behind to mark your passage.

54
piErCinG lEG
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
01-10 01-10 T Whack! The haft or flat of the blade of the weapon smacks 
into your shin. You swear.
If you fail an Average (+20) Endurance Test your M is reduced 
to zero on your next turn, as you jump up and down in place, 
cursing loudly.
11-20 11-20 T Sliced Skin. The tip of your opponent’s weapon leaves 
a narrow flap of detached skin winking redly at the world 
around it.
Pass an Easy (+40) Cool Test or miss your next Action as you 
wink back at the unsightly piece of loosened epidermis.
21-25 21-25 1 Shallow Shin Stab. Your foe’s weapon takes a small fragment 
off from your tibia.
You gain a penalty of -1 to your M for the rest of the encounter.
26-30 26-40 1 Buttock Injury. You try to twist away from the unfriendly 
implement but it still catches you in an unfortunate spot. Your 
trousers now have a hole and a slowly spreading red stain 
at the back.
Suffer a -10 penalty to all Tests on your next Turn. Also, you 
are acutely embarrassed, with exact details up to your GM.
31-35 41-45 1 Patellar Ligament. Your foe sinks the tip of his weapon in 
just above your knee, into the large tendon connecting the 
kneecap to the quadriceps muscles of the thigh.
Your M is halved (round up) and you suffer a -10 penalty to 
all Agility tests requiring use of the leg for the rest of the 
encounter.
36-40 46-50 1 Thigh Wound. Your adversary gifts you a shallow thrust to the 
thigh. Luckily the edges of the weapon go in along the grain 
of the muscle fibers, saving you from severe damage to your 
thigh muscle.
Any time you attempt a Dodge or Athletics Test  (including 
sprinting) requiring use of the leg for the next week, you 
automatically fail the test on an uneven result on the units 
die as your injured leg betrays you.
41-45 51-55 2 Pierced Foot. Your foe’s weapon stabs down into your foot, 
sinking in between the metatarsal bones to emerge from the 
sole of your foot.
You suffer a Torn Muscle (Minor).
46-50 56-60 2 Pierced Calf. Your foe spears your calf, lacerating the muscle. You gain Bleeding (1) and suffer a Torn Muscle (Minor).
51-55 61-65 2 Deep Stab. A deep thrust and a savage twist opens up a 
gaping wound in either your calf or your thigh. Blood gushes 
out in a small scarlet tide.
You gain Bleeding (2) and suffer a Torn Muscle (Major).
56-60 66-70 2 Severed Toe. One of your toes either goes flying or decides to 
stick around a little longer…at least until the shred of tissue 
still connecting it to the foot deteriorates.
You lose a toe – Amputation (Average).
61-65 71-75 3 Split Kneecap. Your opponent’s weapon slams into your 
patella, splitting it in half.
You gain Prone and suffer the effects as for a Broken Bone 
(Minor). The leg will have to be bound and held in place for 
proper healing, just as if it had been an actual fracture.
66-70 76-80 3 Severed Vein. Your antagonist spears your thigh, splitting 
bundles of muscle fibers and tearing a large vein. Blood 
pours out of both the entrance and exit wounds on either 
side of the leg as your wrongdoer extracts his weapon.
You gain Bleeding (2) and suffer a Torn Muscle (Major).
71-75 81-85 3 Lower Leg Fracture. Your foe spears your shin, cracking one 
of the long bones in the lower leg. A disgusting snapping 
sound accompanies your howl of pain.
You gain Prone and Stunned (1). Also, you suffer a Broken 
Bone (Major).
76-80 86-90 4 Foot Fracture. Your enemy spears your foot near the ankle, 
his weapon crunching in among tarsal bones, ligaments, 
tendons and nerves, making a right proper mess of that 
delicate structure.
You gain Prone and Stunned (1). You also suffer a Broken 
Bone (Minor), except that Surgery will be required within 
a week or you’ll have a lamed foot (see under Amputated 
Parts). Otherwise you’ll automatically lose function in 1d10/2 
toes instead (see under Amputated Parts).
81-85 91-95 4 Damaged Achilles’ Tendon. A stab to the back of your leg 
severs the major tendon there with a nasty snapping sound. 
You crash to the ground as your leg folds under you.
Gain Prone and Stunned (2). The leg is useless for 30 minus 
your Toughness Bonus days (see under Amputated Parts), 
after which you halve your M (round up) permanently as the 
ends of the tendon have shriveled up without reconnecting 
properly. If you received Surgery within a week of receiving 
the injury that M penalty is reduced to -1 after an additional 
30 minus your Toughness bonus days.
86-90 96-105 4 Wrecked Knee. Your foe spears your knee, his weapon 
piercing the joint and severing the cruciform ligaments 
anchoring the bones of the lower leg to the upper. He also 
severs the popliteal artery behind the knee.
Gain Prone, Stunned (2) and Bleeding (2) . Also, function in 
the leg is lost – Amputation (Challenging).
If soccer ever catches on in the Old World, at least you never 
had anything to do with it!

55
piErCinG lEG (ContinUEd)
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
91-93 106-115 4 Groin Hit. Your unsporting enemy’s weapon punches in at 
the angle between leg and body, piercing into the groin. Rich 
with blood vessels and other sensitive structures, this is an 
area that it well and truly sucks to be stabbed in!
Gain Stunned (3) and Bleeding (3). If male, there is a risk 
you’ll also end up having problems procreating.
94-96 116-120 5 Severed Nerve. An electric shock followed by complete 
numbness results from your foe’s weapon penetrating deep 
into your upper thigh and severing the important femoral 
nerve.
Gain Prone, Stunned (2) and Bleeding (2). Also, function in 
the leg is lost – Amputation (Difficult). As you tumble to the 
ground you wave your arms wildly, dropping everything held 
in both hands, the objects in question going flying 1d10 yards 
in random directions.
97-99 121-125 5 Femoral Artery. Your adversary’s practical knowledge of 
anatomy allows him to precisely target the inside of your 
thigh, tearing your femoral artery. A massive loss of blood 
is in your future!
Gain Bleeding (4) which cannot be removed without Surgery. 
Should you fail to bleed to death you’ll suffer a Torn Muscle 
(Major).
100 126+ D Impaled Pelvis. Your foe slams his weapon into your upper 
thigh at an angle. It proceeds tearing upwards into your 
hip, continuing on deep into your pelvis where it severs the 
major iliac artery. Resulting shock and blood loss kills you 
mercifully and quickly.
You leave a surprised-looking but reasonably pretty corpse.

56
sHrapnEl & sHot HEad
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
01-10 01-03 T Buzz! Shrapnel and shot go whistling and thrumming through 
the air around your head. You flinch like a wuss!
Pass a Challenging (+0) Cool Test or suffer a penalty of -10 to 
your next rolled Test.
11-20 04-06 1 You Blinked! A small projectile removes several eyelashes 
and nicks one eyebrow.
You gain Blinded (1).
21-25 07-09 1 Where’s My Hat? You duck as small fragments pepper 
your face and scalp, a larger piece going so close that any 
headgear you are wearing gets caught.
A Hat, Leather Skullcap or Open Helm goes flying 1d10 yards. 
A Mail Coif robs you of one extra Wound as mail links dig 
into your scalp. An enclosed Helm gains you Deafened (2) as 
the sound of a fistful of leadshot thrown into a metal bucket 
assaults your ears! If you are bareheaded you lose a single 
point of Fellowship due to minor facial scarring. If you’re 
wearing Flexible layered armor only the outermost piece 
counts.
26-30 10-15 1 Torn Ear. A chunk of your ear goes spinning through the air. Gain Deafened (2). Pass an Easy (+40) Cool Test  to avoid 
dropping anything held in your primary hand to clap it to your 
wounded ear. You can take an Action normally after that. 
Roll 1d10-5; if the result is positive that is the penalty to your 
Fellowship whenever your mangled ear is obvious.
31-35 16-20 2 Facial Wound. Your head snaps back, blood flying as your 
cheek is sliced to the bone, barely missing your eye.
Gain Blinded (1) and Bleeding (1). The resulting scar will be 
impressive without being disfiguring, gaining you +1 SL on 
any Intimidate Test against a target likely to be frightened by 
such things. You can only gain this benefit once.
36-40 21-25 2 Neck Wound. A swirling fragment opens up a good-sized 
hole in the side of your neck. Anyone curious enough for a 
closer look can actually see one of the major blood vessels 
beating in there!
Although now exposed to the public, both your jugular and 
carotid survived this close call. Smaller vessels still gain you 
Bleeding (2).
41-45 26-30 2 Grazed Forehead. Your forehead takes a gash, causing blood 
to run into your eyes.
Gain Bleeding (1). You also gain Blinded (2) which cannot be 
removed until the Bleeding Condition has been removed.
46-50 31-35 2 Eat This! You literally eat a faceful of shrapnel. You spit blood, 
tooth fragments and shot!
Gain Stunned (2) and lose 1d10/2 teeth – Amputation 
(Average).
51-55 36-40 3 Scalp Flap. A hail of shrapnel glances off your skull, lightly 
concussing you and leaving a palm-sized piece of scalp 
dangling.
Gain Stunned (2) and Bleeding (1). Each turn for the rest of 
the encounter there is a 20% risk the flap will get in your eyes, 
gaining you Blinded (1) as well. After the encounter you need 
to pass an Easy (+40) Toughness Test or gain a prominent 
bald spot as the lacerated scalp fails to heal in an esthetic 
manner.
56-60 41-45 3 Broken Jaw. A projectile smashes into your chin, breaking 
your jaw.
Pass an Average (+20) Endurance Test or go Prone. Gain 
Stunned (2) and suffer a Broken Bone (Minor).
61-65 46-50 3 Mangled Face. A blast of shrapnel removes chunks from one 
side of your face, including one ear and quite a bit of cheek, 
leaving white jawbone visible through the rents.
Gain Stunned (3). Lose one ear – Amputation (Average). 
Also, the extensive scarring gains you a penalty of -5 to your 
Fellowship in any situation where a handsome exterior is 
imperative.
66-70 51-55 3 Jammed Jaw. A piece of shot or shrapnel jams itself into the 
hinge that is the temporomandibular joint, connecting your 
lower jaw to your skull. You find yourself unable to close your 
mouth or even to open it much further without severe pain.
Gain Stunned (2). You suffer a Broken Bone (Minor), except 
the bone can’t begin to mend until the projectile is removed. 
Until that happens you’ll also constantly have Fatigued (1) 
due to the agonizing pain of having the fragment keeping your 
mouth jammed open.
Removal requires a Hard (-20) Heal Test and a steady hand.
71-75 56-60 4 Damaged Jugular. Your jugular vein eats a fragment, causing 
a cascade of dark blood to pour down your side.
Gain Bleeding (3).
76-80 61-65 4 Eye Injury. You take a hail of fragments to the face. One nicks 
the edge of your orbital cavity, ripping its way through one of 
the rectus muscles controlling eye movements, finally lodging 
somewhere behind the eye near the optic nerve. Your other 
eye gets away with a subconjunctival hemorrhage, which 
looks nasty with the redness and all, but is quite harmless. 
Gain Stunned (2) and Blinded (3). You’ll need Surgery within a 
week or you’ll lose the eye (see under Amputated Parts) and 
gain a Festering Wound as the fragment lacerates both eye 
and optic nerve.
The surgery will require you to be either unconscious or have 
nerves of steel as the surgeon will have to get his instruments 
hooked around the eyeball and push it aside to locate and 
extract the fragment by feel. Anyone watching the procedure 
will have to pass a Difficult (-10) Cool Test or be violently sick. 
Even a successful operation will leave you with a lazy eye 
due to the damaged eye muscles.

57
sHrapnEl & sHot HEad (ContinUEd)
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
81-85 66-75 4 Lost Nose. An errant fragments departs along with a 
significant portion of your nose. Left side, right side, upper 
part or lower part; it matters not as the result is an unsightly 
hole in the middle of your face. The impact also leaves 
you with two black eyes, which unlike your nose is only a 
temporary inconvenience.
Gain Stunned (2) and Blinded (2) as pain radiates from the 
fractured and torn remains of your dearly departed nose. 
Also, you lose the nose – Amputation (Average).
86-90 76-80 4 Lost Eye. A piece of shrapnel or shot pulps one eye, causing a 
small rivulet of clear gel mixed with blood to run slowly down 
your cheek.
Gain Stunned (3). Lose the eye – Amputation (Difficult).
91-93 81-85 5 Destroyed Face! You roll around on the ground, both hands 
clasped to the ruin of your face.
Gain Prone and Broken. You suffer a Broken Bone (Major)  
and also lose various parts – Amputation (Hard). Roll three 
times and ignore but don’t reroll any multiples of an already 
rolled result:
Roll 1d10:
 1-2 Left ear
 3-4 Right ear
 5-6 Nose
 7 1d10 teeth
 8 Another 1d10 teeth
 9 One eye
 10 Both eyes
94-96 86-94 5 Brain Damage. The blast sends a piece of your skull flying, 
fragments of shot or bone penetrating into your brain. You 
now have a hole in your head! Enough intact scalp remains 
for the opening to close, but you’ll have a soft indention over 
the missing piece of skull forever more…
Pass a Challenging (+0) Endurance Test or go Unconscious; 
otherwise gain Stunned (3). Regardless, once recovered 
from either Condition you instead gain Fatigued (1) that will 
remain for a full week before you stop feeling dizzy.
Roll 1d10 for long-term effects:
1-5 Frontal Lobe Damage: Roll once on the Mental Corruption 
Table. This does not lose you any Corruption Points nor 
does it count towards your Corruption Limit.
6-7 Temporal Lobe Damage: You become very forgetful and 
your Int is reduced by -10.
8-9 Parietal Lobe Damage: You suffer what is called 
expressive aphasia, effectively losing spoken speech 
(see under Amputated Parts - Tongue).
10 Occipital Lobe Damage: You gain Blinded (1) except the 
Condition is permanent as your ability to perceive visual 
input is impaired.
97-99 95-99 5 Torn Throat. Multiple fragments tear through your neck, 
ripping apart windpipe and muscle, nicking a carotid artery 
and damaging your lower jaw. You start choking on blood 
and torn flesh as even more crimson gushes out in rhythmic 
spurts through the ragged wounds.
Gain Prone and Bleeding (3), the latter of which can only be 
removed through Surgery. Should you fail to bleed to death 
you’ll still suffer extensive damage to your voice apparatus, 
effectively losing use of your tongue (see under Amputated 
Parts).
100 100+ D Brain Spill! The blast takes off the top of your skull, sending 
brain matter, hair and bone shards flying. Whatever remains 
of your poor brain sloshes out of the opened brainpan to spill 
on the ground as you collapse, limp like a boned fish.
Head all hollowed out, it’s pretty certain you’re dead as a 
doorknob.

58
sHrapnEl & sHot arm
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
01-10 01-10 T Graze. A fragment slices the skin on the back of your hand, 
stinging something fierce!
You suffer a penalty of -10 to your next rolled Test using that 
arm.
11-20 11-20 1 Jarred Hand. One of your knuckles is skinned as a shot 
ricochets off it, causing your fingers to spasm.
Pass an Average (+20) Endurance Test to avoid dropping 
anything held in that hand. If the item was held in both hands 
you may reroll once.
21-25 21-25 1 Hot-Hot-Hot! A hot fragment embeds itself in your arm. A 
smell of burnt pork starts spreading as you wave your arm 
furiously to dislodge the offending metal.
Until you have removed the fragment you suffer a penalty 
of -20 to any Tests using that arm. Removal requires nothing 
more than the use of your other hand and a single Action to 
yank it out, no roll required.
26-30 26-40 1 Slashed Arm. Like a small deadly Frisbee, a sharp shard 
slices into your upper arm, severing muscle fibers aplenty 
before spinning away.
You suffer a Torn Muscle (Minor).
31-35 41-45 2 Bleeding Wound. Fragments pepper the inside of your elbow, 
damaging a blood vessel, sending strands of crimson flying 
any time you take a new swing.
Gain Bleeding (1) and suffer a Torn Muscle (Minor).
36-40 46-50 2 Pierced Hand. A fiery piece of shrapnel slams into your hand, 
lodging in the palm between a couple of the metacarpal 
bones. Your hand won’t work properly and the fragment is 
uncomfortably hot!
Your hand is useless (see under Amputated Parts) until the 
fragment has been removed, which requires an Average 
(+20) Heal Test  and the point of a dagger or some other 
suitable implement to dig it out. Afterwards, one of your 
fingers may be a little stiff but will work just fine if helpfully 
strapped to a functional neighboring digit.
41-45 51-55 2 Forearm Wound. Your forearm is badly torn by a hail of 
fragments or shot, leaving tendons, bone and twitching 
muscle visible.
You suffer a Torn Muscle (Major).
46-50 56-60 2 Lost Finger. Whatever you held in that hand is punched right 
out of your grip. When you look down at your hand one of 
your fingers is dangling by a small scrap of tissue.
Whatever you held in that hand goes flying 1d10/3 yards in 
a random direction. If the object was fragile it breaks rather 
than flies. You also lose one finger – Amputation (Easy).
51-55 61-75 3 Severed Biceps. A whirling piece of hot metal severs most 
of the top of your biceps, leaving the greater part of this big 
muscle flopping down like a big useless lump under the skin 
by your elbow.
You suffer a Torn Muscle (Major) as well as a penalty of -2 
to your Strength Bonus for any attacks or actions using that 
arm. Unless you receive Surgery to stitch the ends together 
within one week a penalty to your Strength Bonus of -1 will 
be permanent even after the Torn Muscle has healed.
56-60 76-80 3 Smashed Wrist. A piece of shot smashes the head of the long 
radius bone by the wrist. Your hand is now bent at an odd 
angle and throbbing with pain.
You suffer a Broken Bone (Minor).
61-65 81-85 3 Shredded Hand. Your hand takes the full brunt of the blast, 
taking on the aspect of Morr’s own hand. Tendons are sturdy 
things but skin and flesh is shredded from bone! Although 
robbed of most sensation due to no longer having skin to feel 
with, you are still very surprised to see your fingers curl and 
flex at your command, tendons visibly stretching and pulling.
Drop anything held in that hand and suffer a Torn Muscle 
(Major). Although strictly speaking still able to flex and 
extend your torn fingers, until at least partially healed you’ll 
first have to pass a Difficult (-10) Cool or Endurance Test 
(pick the worst) any time you wish to pick something up or 
perform an Action using that hand, to be able to ignore the 
pain and surreal sensation of gripping with bare bone and 
twitching tendons!
66-70 86-90 3 Torn Artery. A swarm of projectiles slices into the inside of 
your upper arm, nicking the brachial artery and ripping up 
the triceps muscle. A discomforting amount of blood starts 
pouring from the tear in your arm.
Gain Bleeding (2) and suffer a Torn Muscle (Major).
71-75 91-95 4 Busted Humerus Bone. Two different heavy projectiles 
smash into your upper arm, one cracking off the greater 
tubercle muscle attachment point near the shoulder, the 
other snapping the long body of the shaft halfway to the 
elbow. With your upper arm bone essentially in three pieces 
your poor upper extremity is in very poor shape!
You suffer a Broken Bone (Major).
76-80 96-109 4 Did A Mole Just Hit Me?  An enterprising projectile burrows 
through your upper arm the long way, entering near the 
elbow and taking a few twists and turns before exiting near 
your armpit. Along the way, it makes a royal mess of various 
soft tissues and also dings your brachial nerve.
Gain Stunned (2) and Bleeding (2). Your arm is useless for 
1d10 days (see under Amputated Parts) after which your 
stunned brachial nerve recovers and you’ll instead have a 
Torn Muscle (Major).

59
sHrapnEl & sHot arm (ContinUEd)
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
81-85 110-115 4 Jammed Elbow. A fragment wedges itself good inside your 
elbow joint. Your arm is jammed in a painful position, half 
flexed and half extended. Every movement results in bolts of 
excruciating pain flashing up your arm.
Gain Stunned (3). You also suffer a Broken Bone (Minor) , 
except it can’t begin to heal until the fragment has been 
removed. Removal will require Surgery (Challenging).
86-90 116-120 4 Wrecked Hand. Fingers are sent flying as your hand explodes 
from the impact of a tight grouping of multiple projectiles. You 
stare in horror at the mangled mess at the end of your arm.
Roll 1d10/5 plus one for the number of fingers lost – 
Amputation (Average). Gain Stunned (3) and Bleeding (1). 
You also suffer a Broken Bone (Minor).
91-93 121-125 5 Nerve Damage. Multiple fragments tear into your shoulder, 
one of them detouring up through the meat of your neck, 
shredding the brachial plexus. Your arm is instantly and 
irreversibly paralyzed from the shoulder down!
Gain Stunned (3). Your arm is useless – Amputation 
(Challenging).
94-96 126-130 5 Amputation Case! A hail of shot turns your arm into a grisly 
minced mass of meat and fragmented bone. The lower 
part hangs from the upper by shreds of tendon and muscle, 
leaving no choice but speedy amputation!
Gain Stunned (3) and Bleeding (2). The arm is destroyed – 
Amputation (Hard), and you’ll need Surgery to amputate the 
remains within one week or you’ll contract Blood Rot as 
gangrene sets in.
97-99 131-135 5 Severed Subclavian Artery. A piece of metal smashes in 
between the collarbone and upper ribs, ricocheting against 
the inner surface of the shoulder blade before severing the 
large subclavian artery branching off from the aorta to the 
arm. A pumping spray of bright red blood rises up from the 
wound in your shoulder near the neck!
Gain Stunned (2) and Bleeding (3), the latter of which can 
only be removed through Surgery.
Should you fail to bleed to death you’ll have a Broken Bone 
(Minor).
Unless the shrapnel is removed you’ll be unable to recover 
one of your lost Wounds. Removal will require Surgery 
(Challenging).
100 136+ D Blunderbuss Do Your Thing! The blast almost tears your 
shoulder off. Metal and bone fragments continue on to rip 
through your chest cavity, shredding your lungs and the 
large blood vessels connecting them to your heart.
You’re quite perforated and very much a goner.

60
sHrapnEl & sHot Body
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
01-10 01-10 T Shredded Clothes. Your jacket/vest/tabard/whatever is 
turned into a right shredded mess. You’ll find pieces of shot 
in your pockets, underwear and shoes for weeks!
Pass an Average (+20) Cool Test or be very annoyed, taking 
a penalty of -10 to your next rolled Test.
If, for some odd reason, you went into battle naked, you’ll 
lose one additional Wound as you take some cuts from spent 
fragments.
11-20 11-20 1 Peppered! You feel like you’ve ended up at the centre of a 
swarm of angry bees as fragments and shot whistle past you. 
You flinch as one piece makes a small cut near your neck and 
other spent fragments pelt your chest.
You gain Blinded (1) as you duck your head and raise an arm, 
shield or other object to protect your face. You feel like a 
wuss!
21-25 21-25 1 Raked Ribs. A piece of shot tears across your chest, making 
a gash across a couple of ribs.
You take a penalty of -20 to your next rolled Test.
26-30 26-30 1 BBQ Time! A fiery hot fragment digs into your flank. There is 
extreme discomfort as it lodges there, smoking and possibly 
also sizzling a bit!
Until you’ve removed the fragment you’ll suffer a penalty of 
-20 to all Tests taken. Removal requires one Action, a free 
hand to expose the wound and some object held in the 
other hand to dig it out. A small sharp object like a dagger 
or a utensil would be perfect, but bulkier stuff like a Hand 
Weapon requires an Average (+20) Dexterity Test. If you’re 
running out of hands you need to take one Action each for 
exposing and digging, respectively.
31-35 31-35 1 Heroic Rib! A projectile that would have punched through 
to lacerate your kidney instead ricochets off a floating rib, 
which pays for its heroism by snapping in two.
You gain Fatigued (1) for the rest of the encounter, after 
which you can bind your chest tightly to function almost 
normally despite the discomfort.
36-40 36-40 2 Stunt Man Dive! Your shield, cuirass, pauldron or simply a 
good-sized belt buckle takes the brunt of the hit, spinning you 
around to take a dramatic looking fall.
Gain Prone. A credulous foe may believe you dead, should 
you encourage such gullible thinking. An Opposed Test of 
Perform versus Perception may be in order…
41-45 41-45 2 Abdominal Pain. Several fragments rip into your glorious 
heroic six-pack. You double over and then find the experience 
of trying to straighten up a very painful one, as each such 
movement feels like you’re tearing your belly apart!
For the rest of the encounter you’ll have to pass a Challenging 
(+0) Endurance Test at the beginning of each of your turns or 
suffer a penalty of -20 to all physical Actions and Tests as 
well as halved M for the rest of that turn.
46-50 46-50 2 What the..?! Whatever your opponent had in his nasty filthy 
little pocket (piece of string, a half-eaten fig, a clipped brass 
penny, the One Ring…), he clearly stuffed down the barrel 
before pulling the trigger!
Gain Stunned (1). Also, whatever just dug into your torso 
will have to be extracted within 48 hours or you’ll contract 
a Festering Wound. This’ll require Surgery (Easy) and will 
reveal whatever horror the GM or the other players can 
come up with that could conceivably fit into a Blunderbuss 
barrel or Bomb.
51-55 51-55 2 Horrific Chest Injury. A blast of shrapnel tears skin and flesh 
from your upper body, exposing ribs and chest muscles. 
You’re a frightful sight, but luckily the wounds are of shallow 
depth and there was no penetration to your thoracic cavity.
Gain Stunned (2) and Bleeding (1). Pass an Average (+20) 
Athletics Test or also gain Prone.
If the GM is enforcing the Infection rules you’ll have to pass 
an Easy (+40) Endurance Test or contract a Minor Infection 
due to the major loss of skin to act as an antibacterial barrier.
56-60 56-60 3 Shredded Shoulder. You twist around to dodge the hail 
of fragments, which still catches you on the back of the 
shoulder. Multiple pellets strip the flesh from your shoulder 
blade, spattering the side of your face with shreds of flesh 
and spent fragments!
Gain Stunned (2) and Bleeding (2). Roll randomly for side, 
right or left – the arm on that side suffers a Torn Muscle 
(Minor).
61-65 61-65 3 Gored Glutes. Shrapnel tear across the soft tissues just 
below the iliac crest in the back, ripping the upper part of 
your gluteus medius muscle, weakening the function of the 
hip.
Your gait becomes a bit odd and lopsided; gaining you a Torn 
Muscle (Major) with the effect is halving your M (round 
up) and a penalty of -20 to your Agility, with partial healing 
reducing the penalty to -1 to your M and -10 to Agility.
66-70 66-70 3 Groin Gash. You sink to your knees as you press one hand 
to your groin where a sharp fragment just went in, causing 
plentiful bleeding.
Drop whatever you held in one of your hands. Gain Prone 
and Bleeding (2). Pass a Challenging (+0) Endurance Test 
or also gain Stunned (2). You may use the hand normally on 
your next Turn.
71-75 71-75 3 Busted Ribcage. Several pieces of shot bust two or three 
of your ribs and tear up the cartilage attaching others to 
your breastbone. With your ribcage so badly broken every 
movement and breath turns into sheer agony!
Suffer a Broken Bone (Minor). Pass a Challenging (+0) 
Endurance Test or go Prone.

61
sHrapnEl & sHot Body (ContinUEd)
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
76-80 76-80 4 Pierced Lung. Projectiles hammer your chest, one of them 
piercing your chest wall and damaging one lung, which starts 
to partially collapse as blood starts filling the pleural space. 
You find yourself with a severely diminished respiratory 
capacity!
Gain Fatigued (3). For healing purposes, count as Torn 
Muscle (Major), with partial healing reducing your Condition 
from Fatigued (3) to Fatigued (1), which will be removed once 
fully healed.
81-85 81-85 4 Internal Organ Grievance. You take a burst of shot to the 
solar plexus. One of the pellets penetrate further than its 
compatriots, holing something you’d rather keep intact…
stomach content, gall, fecal matter or some other foulness 
start leaking into your abdominal cavity. Next stop peritonitis!
Gain Stunned (3). You also contract Blood Rot.
Unless you receive Surgery you won’t be able to recover two 
of your lost Wounds.
If you’re singularly unlucky you’ll encounter a surgeon who 
will insist on testing his theories of digestion through the 
hole in your stomach before (maybe) sewing you up. (Note to 
GM: Look up the story of Canadian trapper Alexis St Martin 
for inspiration.)
86-90 86-90 4 Not As Wide As A Temple Door, Nor As Deep As A Well…
But It Will Do. A fragment punches in just beneath a floating 
rib, penetrating deeply and lacerating something with a good 
blood supply, like the liver, spleen or a minor branch of the 
abdominal aorta. You start bleeding out, leaving just enough 
time for a memorable quote or two.
Gain Bleeding (1) which can only be removed through 
Surgery.
“A plague on both your houses!”
-Tilean Duelist Mercutio, expressing great disappointment 
that someone brought a Blunderbuss to a swordfight…
91-93 91-95 5 Double Pneumothorax. You take the full blast to your chest, 
shrapnel and shot puncturing both lungs! You cough blood 
and gasp for air as your respiratory apparatus collapses. 
With the pleural spaces filling with air and blood there’s no 
room for your lungs to expand to draw in that life-sustaining 
oxygen!
Gain Prone and Broken. Also gain Fatigued (4), which for 
healing purposes will be treated as a Torn Muscle (Major) 
with partial healing reducing your Conditions from Fatigued 
(4) to Fatigued (2). However, even when fully healed you’ll 
still have Fatigued (1) which will be permanent.
94-96 96-110 5 Disembowelment. Merciless metal carves open your 
stomach to spill your guts! Loops of intestine start dribbling 
out the ghastly hole in your abdomen.
Your foe appears to be equal parts thrilled and nauseated at 
the display!
You must use one hand to try to hold your escape-prone 
intestines inside for the rest of the encounter. This is 
regardless of any medical attention gained; you won’t trust 
just a flimsy bandage to hold your guts in place! You also 
gain Bleeding (2), Broken and contract Blood Rot. Your injury 
requires Surgery to heal properly; 3 of your lost Wounds 
cannot be recovered unless healed by a surgeon and until 
that happens any Critical Hit to your Body will have a 25% 
risk of causing you to contract Blood Rot again.
97-99 111-115 5 Catastrophic Bleeding. Numerous pieces of metal violate 
your body, one of them finding its way to some structure 
with an awful lot of blood passing through; like a kidney, a 
pulmonary artery or some equally vital anatomical detail. 
Loss of blood is next best thing to explosive!
Gain Bleeding (3), which can only be removed through 
magical healing. Ordinary Surgery is no good, as the surgeon 
would have to dig into you in a way that would only speed 
your passing.
100 116+ D Kablooie! A burst of shrapnel blasts open your ribcage, 
ripping heart and lungs to pieces, killing you instantly in an 
explosion of gore.
Being able to see your spine through your chest cavity 
should convince anyone that you’re very much dead.

62
sHrapnEl & sHot lEG
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
01-10 01-10 T Dance, Tenderfoot! Shrapnel whine and ricochet around 
your feet, forcing you to jump!
You take your next Action last in the Turn.
11-20 11-20 T Too Close For Comfort! You realize that the draft you’re feeling 
is due to a new set of holes in your garments somewhere in 
the vicinity of your crotch.
Pass an Easy (+40) Cool Test or suffer a penalty of -20 to your 
next rolled Test as you try to push the thought of what have 
happened to the back of your mind.
21-25 21-25 1 Shin Whack. A pellet or fragment whacks your shin, 
procuring a yelp and some minor stumbling.
You suffer a penalty of -10 to any Agility Tests for the next 
1d10 turns.
26-30 26-40 1 Perforated Thigh. Several projectiles embed themselves in 
the muscle of your thigh. Although individually minor injuries, 
together they’re enough to provide you with a proper limp.
You suffer a Torn Muscle (Minor). The small projectiles do 
not need extraction and will become encapsulated in fibrous 
tissue over time.
31-35 41-45 1 Pierced Patella. A fragment sticks out like a bent nail from 
your kneecap. Any breeches, skirt or thigh-high boots you 
were wearing are now nailed to your knee!
Gain Stunned (1) and Prone. You need to take a full Action to 
dislodge the annoying fragment before you can get upright 
again.
36-40 46-50 1 Calf Wound. A spinning piece of metal whacks into the side 
of your calf, carving up a deep bleeding wound.
Gain Bleeding (1) and suffer a penalty of -1 to your M for the 
rest of the encounter.
41-45 51-55 2 Did That One Just Come Out Of My. .?! A projectile slams 
into the side of your thigh, high up near the hip. It burrows 
through the meat and then exits at the back just above the 
gluteal sulcus (the crease separating thigh from buttock) in 
a spray of blood.
Gain Stunned (1) and Bleeding (1). For the next 1d10 days you 
also suffer a penalty of -1 to your M and will have problems 
sitting down. You now also have a hole in your pants.
46-50 56-60 2 Bleeding Wound. Clipping you high up near the back of your 
knee, a piece of shot barely misses your vital popliteal artery 
but still severs the great saphenous vein. Your footwear 
quickly starts filling up with dark blood!
Gain Bleeding (2). Should you attempt any Athletics Test 
requiring steady footing before you’ve had a chance to 
empty out your boot you’ll suffer a penalty of -10 to the Test.
51-55 61-65 2 Torn Lower Leg. Shrapnel pierces your lower leg, leaving 
a couple of good-sized exit wounds as they slice their way 
out through your calf. A virtual Latin library of muscles 
(gastrocnemius, peronueus longus, soleus) find themselves 
with a lot fewer working fibers.
Gain Bleeding (1) and suffer a Torn Muscle (Minor). You also 
need to pass an Average (+20) Athletics Test or go Prone.
56-60 66-70 2 Lost Toe. Dust and debris swirl around you as a hail of 
shrapnel pelt the ground around your feet. You have just 
congratulated yourself on a good dodge when your attention 
is drawn to one bit of debris in particular flying past your 
face…it’s suspiciously toe-shaped?
Lose one toe – Amputation (Easy).
61-65 71-75 3 Fractured Fibula. A chunk of metal sails through your fibula, 
splintering it. This is a non-weight-bearing bone of the lower 
leg, but you’ll still hobble your way through life for a while!
Gain Stunned (2). Your M will be reduced to 1 and you’ll 
suffer a penalty of -30 to your Agility until you’ve had the 
leg properly and tightly bound up after the encounter, after 
which it’ll count as a Torn Muscle (Major).
66-70 76-80 3 Major Thigh Wound. The blast almost separates the large 
quadriceps muscles at the front of your thigh from their 
attachments to bone and tendons. The whole bleeding mass 
of muscle looks disturbingly wobbly and loose.
Gain Stunned (2), Bleeding (2) and Prone. You suffer a Torn 
Muscle (Major), except the leg will be useless (see under 
Amputated Parts) until at least partially healed.
71-75 81-85 3 Knee Injury. A fragment lodges inside your knee joint, ripping 
the meniscus and tearing cruciform ligaments. The offending 
fragment will continue making a nuisance of itself until 
removed. You’ll never dance in the top tier again!
Gain Stunned (2) and Prone. You also suffer a Broken Bone 
(Major), except you’ll automatically fail any Tests for long-
term penalties. Unless you receive Surgery to remove the 
fragment that penalty will be increased to halving your M 
(round up) and -20 to Agility Tests as the fragment keeps 
jamming the joint.
76-80 86-90 4 Crippled Foot. A well-placed blast makes a mess of your foot, 
fracturing tarsal and metatarsal bones, sending toes flying! 
What remains bears a closer resemble to a puzzle than a 
foot!
Gain Stunned (3), Bleeding (1) and Prone. Lose 1d10/5 
toes – Amputation (Average), and suffer a Broken Bone 
(Major), except you’ll automatically fail all Tests for long-
term penalties. Also, you’ll need to pass an Average (+20) 
Endurance Test or gain a Festering Wound.
81-85 91-95 4 Fractured Tibia. A piece of shrapnel takes a large fragment 
off your tibia, the long weight-bearing bone of your lower 
leg. The new structural weakness quickly makes itself felt 
as your weight causes the tibia to snap, a broken-off jagged 
end tearing out through the skin, sending you crashing to the 
ground howling with pain.
Gain Stunned (3) and Prone. The leg is useless (see under 
Amputated Parts), and will remain so unless your receive 
Surgery within a week. If you do it’ll count as a Broken 
Bone (Major), except any Test for long-term penalties 
automatically fail. Regardless, you also contract a Festering 
Wound due to the open fracture.

63
sHrapnEl & sHot lEG (ContinUEd)
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
86-90 96-105 4 Femoral Artery Severed. Projectiles savage the inside of 
your thigh, clipping your femoral artery. Bright arterial blood 
starts spraying in rhythmic spurts! You start feeling faint as 
your blood pressure drops rapidly.
Gain Bleeding (4) and suffer a Torn Muscle (Minor).
91-93 106-115 4 Blown-Off Foot. The blast hits you in the ankle, neatly 
severing your foot from its attachments to the rest of the 
leg. Depending on the grouping of the projectiles hitting you, 
enough tissue may remain for the foot to dangle from the torn 
lower leg but that’s a purely temporary state of things as the 
foot is quite deceased and will either fall off on its own or 
part from you courtesy of a sharp blade (a pair of scissors 
would do the trick nicely).
Gain Stunned (2), Bleeding (2) and Prone. Also, lose the foot 
– Amputation (Challenging).
94-96 116-120 5 Destroyed Knee. In the grand tradition of organized crime 
everywhere, a blast to the kneecap tends to settle even the 
fiercest argument. Whether your foe is a member of any 
such association matters little, as you find yourself all out of 
arguments regardless.
Gain Stunned (3), Bleeding (2) and Prone. The leg is useless 
– Amputation (Hard), and will have to come off within a week 
(requiring Surgery) or you’ll also contract Blood Rot as 
gangrene sets in.
97-99 121-125 5 Severed Leg. Either a very large and sharp piece of shrapnel 
or a very nice and tight grouping of shot completely severs 
your leg above the knee. The gory stump immediately starts 
spurting blood everywhere.
Gain Stunned (1), Bleeding (4)  and Prone. You lose the leg – 
Amputation (Hard), which will land 1d10/2 yards away in a 
random direction.
00 126+ D Destroyed Pelvis. The burst of projectiles practically 
explodes your pelvis, turning the bones into a storm of 
fragments that tear up multiple internal organs, nerves and 
major blood vessels, including the bladder, hypogastric 
plexus and both iliac arteries. You expire quickly from the 
sheer shock.
After such a severe violation of bodily integrity, you are very 
much dead and departed!

64
slinGs HEad
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
01-10 01-03 T Near Miss. The sling bullet whizzes by so close you felt it tug 
at your cheek.
Pass an Easy (+40) Cool Test or suffer a penalty of -10 to your 
next rolled Test. You don’t get to roll for any Pummel Quality.
11-20 04-06 1 Parted Hair. The sling bullet grazed the top of your head, 
either just parting your hair or making a real racket if you 
were wearing a helmet.
You suffer a penalty of -10 to your next rolled Test. If you were 
wearing an Open Helm or Helm you gain Deafened (2) instead. 
Also roll for any Pummel Quality.
21-25 07-09 1 Split Scalp. The sling bullet splits your scalp. Like most head-
wounds, this one is a bleeder!
Gain Bleeding (1). Also roll for any Pummel Quality.
26-30 10-15 1 Black Eye. The sling bullet smacks you right underneath on 
eye, which will result in a real beauty of a shiner!
Gain Blinded (2). Also roll for any Pummel Quality.
31-35 16-20 2 Mangled Ear. The sling bullet scrapes across the side of your 
skull, taking a good piece of your ear with it.
Gain Deafened (2) and Stunned (1). Roll 1d10-5 with any 
positive number being the penalty you suffer to your  
Fellowship whenever the state of your torn ear is obvious. 
Also roll for any Pummel Quality.
36-40 21-25 2 Broken Nose. Pain stabs like lightning through your skull, 
making your eyes water, as the sling bullet smashes your 
nose flat. Within a day you’ll also develop two magnificent 
black eyes.
Gain Blinded (2) and Stunned (1). Also roll for any Pummel 
Quality.
41-45 26-30 2 Split Forehead. The sling bullet rings your bell, leaving a 
shilling-sized thick flap of skin winking open above one eye. 
Blood starts pouring down your face and into your eyes.
Gain Bleeding (1) and Blinded (2), the latter of which cannot 
be removed until the Bleeding Condition has been removed. 
Also roll for any Pummel Quality.
46-50 31-35 2 Broken Teeth. You take your foe’s projectile straight in the 
mouth and start spitting blood and tooth fragments.
Gain Stunned (2). You lose 1d10/2 teeth – Amputation (Easy). 
Also roll for any Pummel Quality.
51-55 36-40 3 Broken Jaw. The projectile hits you in the chin, breaking your 
lower jaw.
You suffer a Broken Bone (Minor). If it was a Lead Bullet you 
instead suffer a Broken Bone (Major) as the almond-shaped 
projectile punches in deep, tearing up the floor of your mouth. 
Also roll for any Pummel Quality.
56-60 41-45 3 Smashed Ear. The sling bullet smashes into the side of your 
head, right in the ear, spalling fragments from the surrounding 
bone.
Pass an Easy (+20) Endurance Test  or gain Unconscious, 
otherwise gaining Stunned (2). You lose the ear – Amputation 
(Easy). Also roll for any Pummel Quality.
61-65 46-50 3 Minor Concussion. The projectile slams into your head near 
the temple, causing you to see stars, your peripheral vision 
graying out. You feel dizzy and nauseated!
Pass a Challenging (+0) Endurance Test  or gain Prone. 
Regardless, you gain Fatigued (1) which will last 1d10 days. 
Also roll for any Pummel Quality.
If the projectile was a Lead Bullet, then roll on this chart 
again. If the new result is Brain Damage or any higher result, 
you suffer the Brain Damage result instead as the almond-
shaped bullet penetrates your skull. On any other roll, use the 
Minor Concussion result.
66-70 51-55 3 Blowout Fracture. The sling bullet smashes into the zygomatic 
arch of your cheekbone. This structure forms a part of the 
floor of the bony orbit of the eye, and the blow pushes parts of 
the shattered bone up against the eye.
Gain Blinded (2). Pass a Challenging (+0) Endurance Test or 
also go Prone. The eye is useless, prevented from moving 
properly in its socket (see under Amputated Parts). Unless you 
receive Surgery within a week the eye will be permanently 
lost. Also roll for any Pummel Quality.
71-75 56-60 4 Crushed Larynx. The projectile slams into your Adam’s apple, 
distorting the cartilage of your windpipe and closing your 
airways. You start to choke.
You gain Fatigued (1) and will gain another level of Fatigued at 
the end of each of your subsequent turns until the cartilage is 
popped back into place. This requires either a Hard (-20) Heal 
Test by yourself or a Challenging (+0) Heal Test by someone 
else. If successful all Fatigued Conditions are removed but 
you won’t be able to speak for a week. If you reach Fatigued 
(10) you go Unconscious and die from suffocation in another 
Toughness Bonus rounds. You don’t get to roll for any Pummel 
Quality.
76-80 61-65 4 Smashed Mouth. The projectile slams into your mouth, 
breaking bone and shattering teeth.
Pass a Challenging (+0) Endurance Test or gain Unconscious, 
otherwise gaining Stunned (3). You also suffer a Broken Bone 
(Major) and lose 1d10 teeth – Amputation (Average).
If the projectile was a Lead Bullet you must also pass a 
Challenging (+0) Toughness Test or also lose your tongue 
(see under Amputated Parts) as the almond-shaped projectile 
penetrates deeply, tearing through the soft tissues of your 
mouth. Also roll for any Pummel Quality.

65
slinGs HEad (ContinUEd)
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
81-85 66-75 4 Lost Eye. Your eye splatters in its orbit as the projectile 
crumples the surrounding bone!
Gain Blinded (3) and Stunned (2). Lose the eye – Amputation 
(Hard). Also roll for any Pummel Quality.
If the projectile was a Lead Bullet, then roll on this chart 
again. If the new result is Brain Damage or any higher result, 
you suffer the Brain Damage result as well as the loss of an 
eye, as the almond-shaped bullet penetrates deep into your 
skull. On any other roll, use the Lost Eye result.
86-90 76-80 4 Fractured Skull. The projectile ricochets off the top of your 
head with a loud crack. Your skull has just been fractured!
Pass a Hard (-20) Endurance Test or go Unconscious. 
Regardless, you also gain Fatigued (2) which will last until the 
plates of your skull have set again in 30 minus your Toughness 
Bonus days. Also roll for any Pummel Quality.
91-93 81-85 5 Torn Throat. The bullet smashes into your neck with great 
force, tearing trachea and vocal cords. You start to choke 
dramatically as blood, crumpled cartilage and torn soft tissue 
block your upper airways.
If your worthy opponent was using the latest in sling 
technology, meaning those nasty aerodynamic and heavy 
lead sling bullets that tend to penetrate deeply, it’s a toss-
up as to whether you choke or bleed out first. You see, some 
large blood vessels were also in the way of the lead bullet’s 
path through your neck area!
You gain Fatigued (1) and will gain another level of Fatigued 
at the end of each of your subsequent turns. If you reach 
Fatigued (10) you go Unconscious and die from suffocation 
in another Toughness Bonus rounds. The accumulation of 
Fatigued Conditions can be halted by another character 
succeeding with a Hard (-20) Heal Test , sticking his fingers 
down your throat to clear away the torn tissues and other gunk.
If the projectile was a Lead Bullet you’ll also gain Bleeding (2) 
as the almond-shaped bullet penetrates deep enough to tear 
veins and arteries as well. You don’t get to roll for any Pummel 
Quality.
Should you survive this nasty experience you lose your 
vocal apparatus. This is effectively a lost tongue (see under 
Amputated Parts).
94-96 86-94 5 Depressed Skull Fracture. The projectile crunches into your 
skull, fracturing it. Shards of bone press down on your poor 
brain and a large subdural hematoma forms.
You go Unconscious and will stay that way until Surgery 
removes the offending bone-shard and clears away the 
large clot to relieve the pressure on the brain. This process 
is known as trepanation, and tends to take a full day. It 
is often attended by a large crowd of onlookers eager to 
see the latest in scientific medical advances. Should the 
surgery be successful you’ll still have to pass a Challenging 
(+0) Endurance Test or contract Blood Rot from resulting 
meningitis.
If Surgery never becomes available you could conceivably 
last a long time with the right care, just uselessly comatose.
There is no need to roll for any Pummel Quality.
97-99 95-99 5 Brain Damage. The projectile slams your noggin’ so hard 
you get an intracranial hematoma and not just one of 
those comparatively benign subdural ones, but a genuine 
subarachnoidal lesion deep inside your unfortunate brain! 
Pain like a gunshot is almost instantly replaced by blessed 
unconsciousness…
You gain Unconscious. At the end of each subsequent day you 
must roll a Hard (-20) Toughness Test. Success means you 
wake up. Failure by -6 SL or more means you expire.
When you wake up you are hemiplegic. Roll randomly for 
side, left or right. The arm and leg on that side are useless 
(see under Amputated Parts). If you’re lucky enough to find 
a particularly knowledgeable Surgeon or a priestess or 
healer of Shallya, she’ll realize the damage may not be totally 
permanent as you still have one intact hemisphere to pick up 
the slack – after one full month of proper rehabilitation and 
training you’ll be down to a -10 penalty to any Tests using that 
arm as well as -1 to your M and -10 to Agility. *
There is no need to roll for any Pummel Quality.
100 100+ D Splattered Brain. The projectile goes in at some point where 
your skull is of less thickness and sturdiness than elsewhere, 
like the temple or through the rear of the orbit of one eye. It 
proceeds to smash your brain to a pulp. Regrettably for you, 
this is not something you just walk off.
Without a functioning brain, you sadly expire pretty much 
instantly.
Of course, there is no need to roll for any Pummel Quality.
 * See Proper Rehabilitation & T raining, page 4.

66
slinGs arm
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
01-10 01-10 T Finger Whack! The projectile whacks your fingers, causing 
you to yelp loudly!
Pass an Easy (+40) Endurance Test  or drop whatever you 
held in that hand.
11-20 11-20 1 Scraped Hand. The sling bullet glances off the back of your 
hand, leaving scraped skin.
You suffer a penalty of -20 to your next rolled Test using that 
arm.
21-25 21-25 1 Bruised Arm. The projectile bounces off your upper arm, 
leaving an ugly bruise.
You suffer a Torn Muscle (Minor), except it heals in a quarter 
(round up) of the normal time.
26-30 26-40 1 Funny-Bone Injury. Your ulnar nerve at the elbow is smacked 
by a hard-flung projectile, causing your hand to spasm.
You drop anything held in that hand, and the arm is useless for 
the next 1d10/2 turns (as in Amputated Parts but temporary).
31-35 41-45 2 Sprained Finger. The projectile catches the edge of your 
hand, leaving one finger unnaturally bent. Fortunately the 
bone is intact, requiring merely someone to yank the abused 
finger back in place.
Your hand is useless (although you don’t drop anything 
held in it) until you pass a Challenging (+0) Endurance Test, 
rolling at the start of each of your subsequent turns. One 
finger remains useless (see under Amputated Parts) until 
the end of the encounter.
36-40 46-50 2 Battered Wrist. The projectile smashes into your wrist, 
spalling a few bone fragments from the head of the long ulna 
bone in your forearm. Although severely bruised and painful, 
your wrist remains basically intact.
You suffer a Torn Muscle (Minor)  and need to pass a 
Challenging (+0) Endurance Test  or drop anything held in 
that hand.
41-45 51-55 2 Cracked Collarbone. The projectile clips and cracks your 
clavicle. The fracture is stable but far from painless!
Any time you want to use the arm for an Action during the 
rest of the encounter you must first pass an Average (+20) 
Cool or Endurance Test. Failure means you lose the Action. 
(You can still roll for Opposed Melee Tests as the defender, 
as necessity trumps discomfort.)
46-50 56-60 2 Broken Fingers. The projectile fractures phalangeal bones in 
two of your fingers, leaving them bent and twisted.
Two fingers will be useless (see under Amputated Parts) until 
the bones have set, which will take 30 minus your Toughness 
Bonus days.
51-55 61-75 3 Fractured Shoulder. You take a hard hit on the roof of 
your shoulder, breaking the acromion process, with its 
attachments to various tendons and muscles. Though it’ll 
heal you’ll probably be bothered with aches and a stiff 
shoulder, leaving you plenty of reason to curse your dastardly 
foe in your old age.
You suffer a Torn Muscle (Major). If you keep your arm 
immobilized and in a sling the whole time it’ll heal in half the 
normal time.
56-60 76-80 3 Broken Wrist. The hard-flung projectile breaks your wrist, 
snapping the head of the radius bone, leaving your hand at 
an odd angle.
You suffer a Broken Bone (Minor).
61-65 81-85 3 Snapped Forearm Bone. The sling bullet snaps the long ulna 
bone in your forearm near your elbow. The other long bone, 
the radius, makes sure your arm stays straight but hardly in 
any condition to be used.
You gain Stunned (1) and suffer a Broken Bone (Minor).
66-70 86-90 3 Broken Humerus. The projectile manages to hit you in the 
groove between the biceps and triceps muscles on the side 
of your upper arm. Less protected by sheaths of muscle at 
that location, your upper arm bone cracks. Your arm drops 
limply at your side!
You gain Stunned (2) and suffer a Broken Bone (Minor). Also, 
until you’ve spent an Action (using your other arm) sticking 
the broken limb into an improvised mitella or otherwise 
accomplished some sort of makeshift immobilization 
(like tucking it into your belt), the dangling extremity will 
unbalance and discomfort you enough for a -20 penalty to 
all Agility Tests.
71-75 91-95 4 Broken Hand. Your hand takes a hit right in the palm, breaking 
several metacarpal bones.
You gain Stunned (2) and suffer a Broken Bone (Minor), 
except any Tests for long-term penalties automatically fail.
If the projectile was a Lead Bullet you also gain Bleeding (1) 
as the almond-shaped slug burrowed through your palm all 
the way to the wrist!
76-80 96-109 4 Broken Elbow. Your elbow gets crushed! The head of at 
least one of the long bones snap off and turn the joint into 
a disaster site!
You gain Stunned (2) and suffer a Broken Bone (Major).
81-85 110-115 4 Shattered Hand. The speeding projectile wrecks your hand, 
smashing both metacarpal and carpal bones, ripping apart 
tendons and nerves. Any potential career with the violin 
ends here and now…
Gain Stunned (2). You suffer a Broken Bone (Major), except 
any Tests for long-term penalties automatically fail. Also, you 
permanently lose function in 1d10/5 plus one fingers (see 
under Amputated Parts).

67
slinGs arm (ContinUEd)
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
86-90 116-120 4 Fractured Forearm. The sling bullet snaps your forearm near 
the wrist, both the ulna and the radius breaking into multiple 
fragments. With all the nerves and tendons that just got 
disrupted it’s unlikely you’ll regain full function in your hand.
Gain Stunned (3). The hand is useless (see under Amputated 
Parts), but if you receive Surgery within one week it’ll count 
as a Broken Bone (Major) instead, except all Tests for long-
term penalties automatically fail.
91-93 121-125 5 Nerve Damage. The sling bullet smashes through your 
collarbone, then batters the brachial nerve plexus, aided 
further by fragments from the shattered collarbone. Your arm 
is paralyzed from the shoulder down.
Gain Stunned (3). Your arm is permanently useless (see 
under Amputated Parts).
94-96 126-130 5 Open Fracture. Your elbow gets hit hard, the head of the 
upper arm bone breaking into at least three pieces, with both 
the medial and lateral epicondyles going separate ways. 
Sharp bone fragments tear out from the skin, creating an 
open complicated fracture!
Gain Stunned (3) and Bleeding (2). The arm is useless (see 
under Amputated Parts). Surgery will be required within one 
week to amputate above the elbow, or you’ll contract Blood 
Rot as gangrene sets in. 
97-99 131-135 5 Internal Bleeding. The projectile crashes into the inside of 
your upper arm near the armpit. The humerus (the long bone 
in the upper arm) cracks lengthwise into several fragments, 
resulting in long shards of sharp bone that tear through the 
surrounding soft tissues. One such bony knife rips through 
your brachial artery, causing massive internal bleeding!
You gain Stunned (2) and Bleeding (3), the latter of which can 
only be removed through Surgery. Should you survive you’ll 
also have Broken Bone (Major).
100 136+ D Arterial Disaster! Whether your opponent managed to 
pick a particularly sharp sling stone or used one of them 
newfangled lead bullets, he sure knew how to throw fast 
and hard! Either the projectile itself or a bone fragment from 
your shattered shoulder tears through your subclavian artery, 
causing massive internal hemorrhaging! Your consciousness 
and life quickly seeps away…
Wow…you actually got killed by getting hit in the arm by a 
thrown stone! Didn’t see that one coming, did ya?

68
slinGs Body
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
01-10 01-10 T Near Miss. The sling bullet causes but a glancing hit, whirring 
away into the distance. You pat yourself down to make sure 
you’re unhurt…
If you were wearing anything fragile, like a draught bottle, a 
monocle hanging from a pocket chain, or some similar thing, 
there’s a 50% chance one random such item will be smashed 
to pieces.
11-20 11-20 1 Flank Hit. The projectile smacks into your side, leaving a bit 
of a bruise and some scraped skin.
You flinch and falter in your step, suffering a penalty of -10 to 
your next rolled Test.
21-25 21-25 1 Bruised Rib. The sling bullet impacts the side of your chest, 
causing a hairline fracture to one of your ribs. Moving and 
weaving through the fight now causes you quite a bit of 
discomfort!
You gain Fatigued (1) which can be removed once you pass 
an Average (+20) Endurance Test, rolling at the end of each 
of your subsequent turns.
26-30 26-30 1 Clipped Shoulder. The sling bullet clips your shoulder, 
spinning you around and ricocheting up to smack your ear 
painfully.
Gain Deafened (2). You also need to pass an Average (+20) 
Athletics Test or go Prone.
31-35 31-35 1 Belly Button Punched! You take a hit right in the stomach, 
getting the wind knocked out of you.
Gain Stunned (1), except you don’t gain any Fatigued 
Condition once the Stunned Condition has been removed.
36-40 36-40 2 Aiming Low! The projectile, undoubtedly aimed even lower, 
hits you hard beneath the navel. A wave of nausea doubles 
you over and you taste vomit at the back of your throat!
Gain Prone as you go to your knees and dribble a bit. 
Depending on when you last had dinner there may even be 
some actual hurling!
41-45 41-45 2 Bruised Shoulder Blade. As you try your skills at acrobatic 
dodging, you get hit on the back of your shoulder. Skin and 
muscle is mashed against bone, possibly even chipping it a 
bit.
Roll randomly for side, left or right. The arm on that side 
suffers a Torn Muscle (Minor).
46-50 46-50 2 Why Am I Peeing Red?  You take one heck of a whack to 
the flank, your lower ribs flexing under the strain. Your poor 
kidney is contused, causing you to pee red for a few days.
Gain Stunned (2).
51-55 51-55 2 Cracked Sternum. Right in the middle of the sniper’s triangle, 
you take one to the middle of your chest, causing a stable but 
painful fracture of your breastbone, making deep breaths a 
real drag.
You gain Fatigued (1) which will last one whole week before 
the bone has started setting.
56-60 56-60 3 Pelvis Fracture. The sling bullet slams into the bony crest 
high on your hip, cracking the wing of the ilium bone.
Gain Stunned (1). You’ll suffer a penalty of -1 to your M and 
-20 to any Agility Tests until the bone has set in 30 minus your 
Toughness Bonus days.
61-65 61-65 3 Bull’s Eye! You take the sling bullet right in the groin! 
Uncomfortable for you and highly amusing for your foe.
Gain Stunned (3) . Depending on the nature of the bruising 
you may encounter difficulties procreating for a while.
66-70 66-70 3 Broken Ribs. The projectile breaks several of your ribs. This 
will make any breathing and physical exertions a proper pain 
in your patookas!
You suffer a Broken Bone (Minor).
If the projectile was a Lead Bullet you reroll the result 
once. If the result comes up as Pneumothorax or any higher 
result you use the Pneumothorax result instead as the bullet 
penetrates your chest. On any other result, use the Broken 
Ribs result instead.
71-75 71-75 3 Burst Spleen. The sling bullet smashes into your left side, 
some of your floating ribs gaining hairline fractures as they 
flex under the impact. The blow bursts your spleen, causing 
heavy internal bleeding!
Gain Bleeding (1) which can only be removed through 
magical healing.* Surgery or ordinary Heal Tests don’t work 
as the bleeding is inside the fibrous capsule surrounding the 
spleen, impossible to get at. Fortunately, the capsule also 
contains the bleeding, which will stop after 1d10+5 turns, 
causing the Bleeding Condition to be removed.
Because the spleen is an important part of your immune 
system you’ll lose any Resistance (Disease) Talent that you 
had.
76-80 76-80 4 Shattered Breastbone. The sling bullet lands with such force 
that your sternum is shattered to pieces. As it is connected 
to pretty much every rib you have, helping hold the whole 
ribcage together, this severely impacts your ability to take a 
deep breath and be a chill dude.
You suffer a Broken Bone (Major).
81-85 81-85 4 Ruptured Bowel. A hard-flung projectile to the belly ruptures 
a length of intestine, spilling fecal matter into your abdominal 
cavity, leading to a serious infection and peritonitis.
Gain Stunned (2) and Prone. Also, you contract Blood Rot.

69
slinGs Body (ContinUEd)
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
86-90 86-90 4 Pneumothorax. The pleural sac of one of your lungs is torn, 
either by the bone shards from ribs fractured by a Stone 
Bullet or by a Lead Bullet punching through your chest wall. 
Your lung collapses as air and blood enters the pleural space!
Gain Fatigued (3). For healing purposes, count as Torn Muscle 
(Major), with partial healing reducing your Conditions from 
Fatigued (3) to Fatigued (1) which will be removed once fully 
healed.
91-93 91-95 5 Kidney Injury. The sling bullet slams into your right flank, 
breaking one of the lower ribs. The jagged end of it gets 
punched deep, where it lacerates one of your kidneys. As 
the kidneys’ job is to filtrate your entire blood volume over 
and over again, this is bad news indeed.
Gain Stunned (1) and Bleeding (3), the latter of which 
requires Surgery to remove.
Should you survive, you’ll still have a Broken Bone (Minor). 
Because stopping the bleeding probably required clamping 
off the whole organ, you’ll incidentally also have only one 
kidney left…
94-96 96-110 5 Pierced Pericardium. Bone splinters from a shattered rib 
penetrate to your heart, lacerating the pericardial sac 
surrounding this most vital organ.
Gain Fatigued (3) which will last until you’ve had Surgery, 
which will require a lengthy procedure and cause a 
Festering Wound regardless of success or failure. Until 
success happens you’ll have a 10% chance of dying each 
day as the fragments migrate deeper.
97-99 111-115 5 Cardiac Tamponade. You experience high-energy trauma to 
your chest, the resulting shearing forces partly detaching 
your ascending aorta from the heart. Blood immediately 
starts filling the pericardial sac surrounding your heart, 
causing what is called a hemopericardium.
The accumulation of blood prevents your heart from beating 
effectively, rapidly reducing your cardiac output.
Gain Stunned (2). You also gain Fatigued (1), gaining another 
level at the end of each of your subsequent turns. When you 
have reached Fatigued (10) you expire.
Only magical healing can save you, requiring a spell or 
prayer equivalent to Surgery** to stop further accumulation 
of Fatigued Conditions. Ordinary Surgery won’t do any good. 
If you survive you’ll be able to remove one level of Fatigued 
Condition every second day.
100 116+ D Broken Heart. The projectile slams into the center of your 
chest with deadly force.
A Stone Bullet cracks your breastbone and causes your 
heart to falter and go into a fatal arrhythmia, the heart muscle 
beating furiously but without any coordination between its 
four chambers, resulting in quick loss of consciousness and 
death from lack of oxygenated blood.
A Lead Bullet simply punches straight through your 
breastbone to tear up the large veins and arteries connecting 
the heart to the lungs, resulting in massive and fatal bleeding.
Since a working heart is required for proper living (being 
undead doesn’t count) you die tragically.
 * See pages 3-4 for information on how to remove Bleeding Conditions with spells and prayers.
 ** See page 4 for information on which spells and prayers count as applied Surgery.

70
slinGs lEG
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
01-10 01-10 T Skipping Stone. The sling bullet skips over the ground, 
forcing you to make an undignified leap into the air to avoid it.
You take your next Action last in the turn.
11-20 11-20 T Ricochet! The sling bullet ricochets off the ground to hit you 
perilously close to your groin.
Luckily for you, its force was spent. You still flinch and miss a 
step, so you must halve your M (round up) on your next turn.
21-25 21-25 1 Bruised Shin. You take it on the shin, the projectile bouncing 
off your lower leg.
You suffer a penalty of -1 to your M and -10 to your Agility for 
the rest of the encounter.
26-30 26-40 1 Battered Toes. The sling bullet slams into the tip of your foot, 
mercilessly battering your toes.
1d10/2 of your toes become useless for the rest of the 
encounter (see under Amputated Parts).
31-35 41-45 1 Sprained Ankle. The sling bullet smacks your lateral 
malleolus, the prominence on the outer side of your ankle, 
bruising it badly. With all the tendons attached to it, this is 
effectively a really nasty sprain.
For the next 1d10/2 days, any time you roll for a Dodge or 
Athletics Test, you automatically fail on an uneven roll on the 
unit die, as your battered ankle betrays you.
36-40 46-50 1 You Go High, It Goes Low! The projectile comes in just barely 
above the ground and slams your foot sideways. You take a 
bit of a tumble.
Gain Prone. If you aren’t wearing any footwear you also 
suffer the effects of the Sprained Ankle result above.
41-45 51-55 2 Thigh Whack! The sling bullet gives you a painful whack high 
up on the inside of your thigh as it passes between your legs.
You squeeze your thighs together hard and reduce your M 
to 1 on your next turn, also missing your next Action as you 
whimper pitifully.
46-50 56-60 2 Bone Bruise. A solid hit results in the mother of all bone 
bruises. The impact site swells up painfully as blood starts 
pooling between cartilage and underlying bone.
You suffer a Torn Muscle (Minor).
51-55 61-65 2 Torn Tendon. The sling bullet slams into your leg just 
above the knee, the impact causing a rupture in the large 
quadriceps tendon. You suddenly find it difficult to straighten 
the leg properly!
You suffer a Torn Muscle (Major).
56-60 66-70 2 Lost Toe. One of your toes makes the ultimate sacrifice. A 
Lead Bullet takes the heroic digit off cleanly, possibly 
leaving it dangling by a scrap of tissue. A Stone Bullet simply 
squashes it flat. Even if it heals it’ll be flat and useless like a 
small fleshy pancake.
You lose one toe – Amputation (Average).
If you’re equipped with the iconic Small But Vicious Dog you 
can always give it to the dog…
61-65 71-75 3 Dislocated Kneecap. The projectile hits your kneecap, 
coming in from the side and neatly dislocating it from its 
groove over the knee joint in a most agonizing fashion. Your 
poor patella now stands out from the side of your knee like a 
big ugly bump under the skin, effectively locking your leg in 
a painful bent position.
You gain Prone and Stunned (1). Also, your leg is useless (see 
under Amputated Parts) until the kneecap has been popped 
back into place. You can try to pop it back in place yourself, 
which is a Very Hard (-30) Test for either Cool, Endurance 
or Heal, depending on your method (which can consist of 
simply slamming your knee into something solid at a hopeful 
angle…or a slightly more scientific proposal). Alternately, a 
friend or ally can attempt a Challenging (+0) Heal Test. After 
a successful pop, you’ll instead count as having suffered a 
Torn Muscle (Minor).
66-70 76-80 3 Ankle Fracture. The sling bullet hits the side of your foot, 
fracturing the malleolus. Although the fracture Is a stable 
nondisplaced break, you can’t out your weight on that foot!
You gain Prone and suffer a Broken Bone (Minor).
71-75 81-85 3 Cracked Fibula. The projectile impacts the outside of 
your lower leg, fracturing the shaft of the long fibula bone. 
Although not a weight-bearing bone, this injury still makes 
walking a painful business.
Gain Stunned (2). Your M will be reduced to 1 and you’ll 
suffer a penalty of -30 to your Agility until you’ve had the 
leg properly and tightly bound up after the encounter, after 
which it’ll count as a Torn Muscle (Major).
76-80 86-90 4 Groin Strike! With unerring accuracy, the sling bullet slams 
into your nether regions like it had been guided there! 
Gain Stunned (4) and Prone as you double up in extreme 
agony and vomit helplessly. If male, there is a risk you’ll also 
end up having problems procreating.
81-85 91-95 4 Catastrophic Knee Damage. The projectile strikes your knee 
with devastating force. A Stone Bullet simply shatters the 
heads of both the femur and tibia into multiple fragments. 
A Lead Bullet rips through the kneecap and wrecks the 
cruciform ligaments and other inner structures of the knee 
joint. Regardless, your knee is pretty much history as a 
meaningful and valued member of this team.
Gain Stunned (3) and Prone. For healing purposes it counts 
as a Broken Bone (Major), except even when healed you 
suffer a permanent halved M (round up) and -20 to your 
Agility for any Tests requiring use of the leg.

71
slinGs lEG (ContinUEd)
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
86-90 96-105 4 Toasted Tibia. Your tibia is toast. A hard-flung projectile 
makes a direct hit to the front of your shin, fracturing the 
bone to pieces, some fragments penetrating through the skin. 
The leg is still reasonably straight thanks to an intact fibula 
(the other long bone in your lower leg) but the tibia was the 
weight-bearing part of the duo. 
You gain Stunned (3) and Prone, also suffering a Broken 
Bone (Major) and contracting a Festering Wound due to the 
open fracture.
91-93 106-115 4 Ruined Foot. The sling bullet shatters your midfoot, making 
a mess of the complicated puzzle of tarsal bones in that part 
of the foot. Tendons and nerves are also ravaged. If the sling 
bullet was a Lead Bullet it actually penetrates all the way 
through to your sole! Regardless, your foot is a ruin.
You gain Stunned (2) and Prone. You also permanently lose 
function in the foot – Amputation (Challenging).
94-96 116-120 5 Time Bomb! What appeared to be a deep bone bruise is 
actually a lot worse! The femur of your thigh is cracked 
lengthwise. When weight is put on it, it’ll shatter as a diagonal 
fracture, with the sharp ends doing horrific damage as the 
leg suddenly and unexpectedly compresses and shortens 
underneath you!
You gain Stunned (1) and suffer a Torn Muscle (Minor) . 
However, any time you do a Melee Attack, Athletics Test 
(including Running) or Dodge, there is a 25% chance the leg 
will break. The downward-pointing fragment will poke out of 
your leg near the knee in a spray of blood, while the upward-
pointing fragment will rip up into the pelvic area, severing 
the femoral nerve. You’ll gain Bleeding (2) and the leg will be 
permanently paralyzed – Amputation (Hard).
97-99 121-125 5 Between A Rock And A Hard Place.  The sling bullet breaks 
your tibia in half. As your whole weight comes down on your 
shattered lower leg, the fibula snaps as well, leaving nothing 
but broken bones and jagged shards that tear through the 
soft tissues of your leg when you collapse. The arteries and 
nerves supplying your foot are severed, leaving the broken-
off end of your lower leg cold, numb and lifeless.
You gain Stunned (3), Prone and Bleeding (2). You also 
permanently lose function in the foot – Amputation (Hard), 
and the leg will have to come off below the knee, requiring 
Surgery within one week or you’ll contract Blood Rot as 
gangrene sinks its teeth into the lifeless extremity.
100 126+ D What follows is a series of unlikely events unfolding…
If the projectile was a Lead Bullet at least it makes some 
sense that deep penetration was a contributing factor, 
with the fast-moving and spinning almond-shaped heavy 
bullet smashing into your groin where the thigh meets the 
abdomen and punching through skin and soft tissue to tear 
your femoral artery in half.
With the bullet plugging the entry-hole in your leg, the level 
of internal bleeding is not immediately obvious, with friends 
and foes alike smirking in fake sympathy as you grab your 
groin and sink to your knees with a pained expression on 
your face. It’s only when you keel over and croak, still with 
the same pained expression on your face, that a large pool 
of blood starts spreading around you, making the cause of 
your demise obvious.
If the projectile was a Stone Bullet or improvised rock picked 
from the ground*, things start getting even more unlikely! It 
smashes into your thigh, managing to hit just in the groove 
between the rectus femoris and either the medial or lateral 
vastus muscles of the quadriceps, allowing the stone to 
apply its full kinetic energy to your femur where it is weakly 
padded by protective sheaths of muscle. The long thigh bone 
thus snaps from the impact, about a third of the way up from 
the knee.
A chunk of bone marrow detaches from the fractured bone 
and gets into the bloodstream by way of the femoral vein. 
From there it travels to your heart and gets ejected into the 
pulmonary artery, whereupon it then gets stuck in your lung 
as a massive fatty pulmonary embolism. You grow pale, grab 
your chest and then slump to the ground where you quietly 
expire.
(I do apologize for this mess, but figuring out how being hit by 
a stone on the leg can kill you required quite a bit of effort!)
Whether by bleeding out or courtesy of a fatty embolus, you 
are very much expired.
 * That would be the wonderfully named Pebble from the Up In Arms supplement.

72
tEEtH & ClaWs HEad
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
01-10 01-03 T A Close Call! You get away with a good scare and a faceful of 
slobber and bad breath.
Pass a Challenging (+0) Cool Test  or suffer a -10 penalty to 
your next rolled Test, as you wipe away monster drool.
11-20 04-06 1 Face Hug! Your foe makes a lunge at your face, causing you 
to stagger back.
Your next Action may not be an attack.
21-25 07-09 1 Ear Chomp! In an attempt to rip your face off, your foe nicks 
your ear, tearing a piece of it away.
Gain Deafened (2). Roll 1d10-5; if the result is positive that 
is the penalty you suffer to your Fellowship whenever your 
mangled ear is visible.
26-30 10-15 1 Go For The Eyes, Boo! Growling, your foe rakes your face, 
only sheer luck stopping it from snacking on your eyeballs.
Gain Blinded (2).
31-35 16-20 2 Going For The Jugular! Savagely going for your jugular, your 
foe is nearly successful, nicking at least large one vein.
Gain Bleeding (1).
36-40 21-25 2 Scalp Snack! Ravening, your foe tears your scalp, causing 
blood to stream down your face and into your eyes.
Gain Bleeding (1) and Blinded (2), the latter of which cannot 
be removed before the Bleeding Condition is removed.
41-45 26-30 2 Face-Off! Managing to hook fangs or claws around the angle 
of your jaw, your slavering foe almost tears your whole lower 
face off. Your mandible stays in place but bone and teeth are 
visible through the tears!
Gain Stunned (1). Roll 1d10/2, which will be the penalty to 
your Fellowship whenever your scars from this encounter 
are obvious.
46-50 31-35 2 Neck Toss! Your slavering foe attempts to close his jaws and/
or paws around your neck to tear your head off, but angular 
momentum sends you spinning out of the grip before fangs 
and/or claws sink in.
Gain Prone. If you were wearing a Hat, Leather Skullcap or 
Open Helm, it goes flying 1d10 yards in a random direction.
51-55 36-40 3 Chin Crunch! Pouncing, your foe targets your chin for some 
proper mauling, tearing off most of any beard you may 
possess and breaking your jaw.
Suffer a Broken Bone (Minor). Also, roll 1d10-5; if the result 
is positive that is the penalty you suffer to your Fellowship 
whenever your scars and patchy beard are obvious.
56-60 41-45 3 My Ear! Your snarling foe gets hold of one of your ears and 
makes away with it!
Gain Bleeding (1) and lose the ear – Amputation (Easy).
61-65 46-50 3 Cheek Chomp! In a display of animalistic brutality, your foe 
takes a bite out of your face, leaving most of one cheek torn 
and dangling like an unsightly flap of meat, exposing teeth 
and tongue.
Gain Stunned (1) and Bleeding (1). Also, your face is now 
quite hideous, reducing your Fellowship by -10. Successful 
use of Heal skill will reduce the loss to -5 by means of crude 
stitching, while Surgery will realign the jigsaw-puzzle that is 
your face well enough to negate any loss.
66-70 51-55 3 Face Mangling! Fangs or paws close around your face. The 
maxillary bone of your upper jaw deforms with a crunch and 
your lower jaw is dislocated by the savage assault!
Gain Stunned (2) and suffer a Broken Bone (Major).
71-75 56-60 4 Nose Nibble! Your slavering enemy makes a tasty snack of 
your nose. There is now a very disturbing hole in the middle 
of your face!
Lose the nose – Amputation (Easy).
76-80 61-65 4 Takedown! Your foe tears into the back of your neck, ripping 
muscles and nicking vertebrae, wrenching your neck cruelly. 
You are born to the ground in a beautiful display of predatory 
hunting techniques, at the mercy of your feral foe!
Gain Prone and Bleeding (2) . Also, due to whip-lash trauma, 
you gain Fatigued (1), which goes away normally after a rest. 
After the end of the encounter you will again gain Fatigued (1) 
any time you do anything physically strenuous (like fighting 
or an Athletics Test). At the end of each month from now 
you’ll get to take a Hard (-20) Endurance Test to make this 
effect go away spontaneously. Alternatively, successful use 
of Surgery will get you a good neck brace that will clear it up 
in a couple of weeks, but while wearing it you’ll be at -20 to 
your Agility.
81-85 66-75 4 Lost Eye. Gnashing and growling, your enemy rakes you 
across one side of the face, leaving several parallel furrows, 
including one across the eye.
Gain Stunned (2). Also lose the eye – Amputation (Hard). You 
must also pass a Challenging (+0) Endurance Test or contract 
a Festering Wound.

73
tEEtH & ClaWs HEad (ContinUEd)
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
86-90 76-80 4 Chewy-Chewy! Your whole head disappears inside fanged 
jaws or clawed paws. Some chewing and/or mauling later, 
you are neither whole, hale, hearty nor pretty!
You lose parts – Amputation (Difficult).
Roll 1d10:
 1-2 Right ear
 3-4 Left ear
 5 Nose
 6 Right eye
 7 Left eye
 8-9 1d10 teeth
 10 Roll twice
Regardless, your Fellowship is reduced by an extra -10 due 
to the extensive facial scarring.
91-93 81-85 5 Cracked Skull. The plates of your skull break under the bestial 
assault, leaving your head looking all warped and weird.
Pass a Hard (-20) Endurance Test or gain Unconscious. 
Regardless, you gain Fatigued (2), which will last 30 minus 
your Toughness Bonus days, when your bones have set again.
94-96 86-94 5 Brain Snack! Proving why it was a bad idea to tangle with 
something so well equipped in the ivory department, your foe 
cracks open your forehead, removing a piece of frontal lobe 
brain matter. This results in some disturbing changes to your 
personality.
Gain Unconscious. Roll once on the Mental Corruption Table 
when you wake up. This does not lose you any Corruption 
Points nor does it count towards your Corruption Limit. 
Also, pass a Challenging (+0) Endurance Test  or contract a 
Festering Wound.
97-99 95-99 5 Torn Throat. Hungry for gore, your foe tears out a good piece 
of your throat! Apart from a torn carotid artery, your vocal 
apparatus is also mangled.
Gain Bleeding (4). Should you survive, you’ll also suffer the 
effects of a Broken Bone (Major), except you fail all rolls for 
long-term effects automatically.
100 100+ D I’ll Bite Your Head Off!  Your head is partly or entirely 
separated from your body. In the latter case, swallowing may 
be involved. Either way, there’s a whole lot of blood spurting 
from your neck hole.
You are headless, lifeless and possibly about to be digested.

74
tEEtH & ClaWs arm
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
01-10 01-10 T Tug-Of-War. You wave your arm furiously to dislodge the 
monster that just got a grip on your sleeve/weapon/shield!
Pass a Challenging (+0) Strength Test  or you may not use 
that arm or anything held in it until the end of your next turn.
11-20 11-20 1 Raked Hand. Howling with primal bloodlust, your foe rakes 
your hand, leaving torn skin and bare flesh oozing red.
You suffer a penalty of -10 to any Tests using that hand until 
the end of your next turn.
21-25 21-25 1 Wrist Wound. Your hand spasms as your murderous foe 
chomps down on or batters your wrist. A row of seeping 
indentations score a line across your lower arm, courtesy 
of fangs or claws.
You drop anything held in that hand.
26-30 26-40 1 Biceps Bite. Drooling with a lust for slaughter, your foe opens 
up your arm, tearing muscle and flesh.
You suffer a Torn Muscle (Minor).
31-35 41-45 2 Deltoid Dinner. Your beastly foe cruelly tears a chunk of 
muscle from your upper arm, sending blood spurting over 
the both of you.
Gain Bleeding (1) and suffer a Torn Muscle (Minor).
36-40 46-50 2 Forearm Food. In a display of pure savagery, your foe rips 
into your lower arm, damaging one of the arteries supplying 
the hand. Your grip soon grows slippery with blood!
Gain Bleeding (1). Until the Bleeding Condition has been 
removed you’ll have to pass an Average (+20) Dexterity Test 
any time you want to perform an Action requiring an item 
held in that’s hand, or lose your grip and drop the item.
41-45 51-55 2 Wrenched Arm. With bestial strength, your foe almost rips 
your arm out of its socket!
The arm is useless (see under Amputated Parts) for 1d10 
turns. Also, you drop any item held in that hand.
46-50 56-60 2 Savaged Hand. Phalangeal finger bones crackle and tendons 
creak as your hand becomes your foe’s chew toy or miniature 
punching bag.
Your hand is useless (see under Amputated Parts) for the 
rest of the encounter. Afterward it’ll be swollen and battered 
enough to count as a Torn Muscle (Minor).
51-55 61-75 3 Ri-i-i-i-ip! In an unparalleled exhibit of carnivorous cruelty, 
your enemy digs claws, fangs or other natural cutlery into 
your forearm and proceeds to tear a long flap of skin and 
flesh off, all the way to the back of your hand, leaving muscle 
and tendons exposed and glistening. A gruesome sight!
Gain Stunned (2) and Bleeding (1). Also, suffer a Torn Muscle 
(Minor). You must pass a Challenging (+0) Cool Test before 
you’re allowed to use the arm for any Actions, rolling at the 
start of each of your turns until you pass.
56-60 76-80 3 Dislocated Shoulder. Your monstrous foe clamps on to your 
shoulder and bears down on you with its full weight, bearing 
you to the ground. Your shoulder joint is unable to take the 
strain and your shoulder dislocates with a sickening pop. 
Your screams are almost as loud as your enemy’s howl of 
triumph.
Gain Prone. Your arm is useless (see under Amputated 
Parts) and the pain so severe you suffer a -10 penalty to 
all Tests. You can try to pop it back in place yourself, which 
is a Hard (-20) Test for either Cool, Endurance or Heal , 
depending on your method (which can consist of simply 
slamming yourself into something solid at a hopeful angle…
or something slightly more scientific). Alternately, a friend or 
ally can attempt a Challenging (+0) Heal Test. This puts your 
arm back in action again without penalties. Otherwise the 
shoulder will pop back in place spontaneously during your 
next rest, but will be plenty sore enough for a -10 penalty to 
any Tests performed with that arm for the next 24 hours.
61-65 81-85 3 Crunchy And Tasty! Your foe ferociously latches on to your 
lower arm, twisting and pulling until there is a distinct crack 
as your wrist snaps.
Gain Bleeding (1). You must also pass a Challenging (+0) 
Strength Test or go Prone. You suffer a Broken Bone (Minor).
66-70 86-90 3 Finger Food! Feeling a bit puckish, your enemy decides to 
indulge in a snack. You stare in horror at the raw bleeding 
stump of one of your fingers!
Gain Stunned (1). Lose one finger – Amputation (Easy).
71-75 91-95 4 Pit Stop! Like the beast it is, your foe manages to catch hold 
of the triceps muscle at the back of your arm near the armpit. 
A chunk of tissue detaches and blood sprays from a severed 
artery!
Gain Bleeding (2) and suffer a Torn Muscle (Major).
76-80 96-109 4 Dislocated Elbow. Spittle flying, your foe strikes with inhuman 
strength, nearly tearing your arm off. The elbow joint fails 
first, dislocating as ligaments and tendons tear and stretch 
in ways not designed by nature. The pain is unbelievable!
Gain Stunned (1). Your arm is useless (see under Amputated 
Parts) and the pain so severe you suffer a -10 penalty to 
all Tests for the rest of the encounter. The arm will remain 
useless until given Medical Attention after the encounter, 
which requires a Challenging (+0) Heal Test, which can be 
repeated once per day. If successful it’ll count as a Torn 
Muscle (Minor) rather than a lost limb.
81-85 110-115 4 Marrow Munch! Like the culinarily sophisticated monster 
that it is, your foe attempts to get at your delicious bone 
marrow by the most direct route possible. The long humerus 
bone of your upper arm splinters and cracks!
Gain Stunned (2) and pass a Challenging (+0) Strength Test 
to avoid also going Prone. You suffer a Broken Bone (Major).

75
tEEtH & ClaWs arm (ContinUEd)
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
86-90 116-120 4 Digit Delight! Your hand is engulfed by fanged jaws or 
clawed paws. When they depart, several of your fingers 
depart as well!
Gain Stunned (2) and Bleeding (1). You also lose 1d10/2 
fingers – Amputation (Challenging). If five fingers are lost 
you lose the entire hand.
91-93 121-125 5 Meat Off The Bone!  With a truly monstrous disregard for 
civilized table manners, your vicious foe strips most of the 
meat and muscle from your upper arm and shoulder.
Gain Stunned (2) and Bleeding (2). Your arm is permanently 
useless – Amputation (Hard). You also contract as Festering 
Wound due to no longer having much of a skin barrier to 
protect what remains of your limb from filth and germs.
94-96 126-130 5 Bite Size! Giving itself entirely to its primal hunger, your 
foe slakes its appetite by helping itself to most of your arm, 
which is severed near the elbow, leaving ragged flesh and a 
splintered stub of bone.
Gain Bleeding (3). Pass a Very Hard (-30) Cool or Endurance 
Test to avoid also gaining Stunned (3). Needless to say, you 
lose the arm – Amputation (Challenging).
97-99 131-135 5 Donate Blood, Anyone?  You lift your arm to defend yourself 
but your feral and wily foe goes in under your guard to tear 
into the soft flesh at the armpit, ripping your brachial artery 
to shreds. Blood covers both your foe and your whole side!
Gain Bleeding (3) which requires Surgery to remove, probing 
deep into the torn mess to find an intact piece of artery to 
clamp. Should you survive, you also suffer a Torn Muscle 
(Major).
100 136+ D Dismemberment! Fell and feral, your foe clamps down on 
your shoulder near the angle of the neck. With merciless 
brutality it proceeds to tear your whole shoulder off. The 
shoulder blade and pieces of several ribs come away as well, 
exposing lung and splintered bone in the ensuing gaping hole.
Having just been deprived of one arm and almost a quarter of 
your torso, you expire speedily!

76
tEEtH & ClaWs Body
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
01-10 01-10 T Things That Go Bump! Your foe attempts to sink some teeth 
and/or claws into your body, but only manages to connect 
with the back of a paw or the blunt end of its muzzle.
Pass an Average (+20) Agility Test or suffer a -10 penalty to 
your next rolled Test as you stumble back.
11-20 11-20 1 Fashion Vandal! Your foe manages to catch hold of your shirt/
jacket/coat/whatever and rips the front to shreds. Somebody 
get this beast a scratching post!
Apart from the expenses incurred for repair, you also suffer 
a penalty of -10 to any Tests rolled until the beginning of your 
next turn.
If for some reason you are bare-chested you suffer one extra 
Wound instead.
21-25 21-25 1 Snatch And Grab! Your enemy latches on to a belt, scabbard, 
coat tail or other piece of gear or clothing, and tries to pull 
you off your feet.
You go Prone. If, for some unfathomable reason, you went 
into battle naked, you instead gain Bleeding (1).
26-30 26-30 1 Pecs For The Peckish!  Your famished foe takes a bite out 
of your chest muscles, leaving you with a few less muscle 
strands to work your shoulder with on that side. Your pecs 
are indeed quite important for those heroic swings and 
mighty blows, as you quickly discover to your chagrin.
Roll randomly for side, left or right. Any blows struck with the 
arm on that side suffer a penalty of -1 to your Strength Bonus, 
until healed. For healing purposes, count it as a Torn Muscle 
(Minor) with no other effect but the Strength Bonus penalty.
31-35 31-35 1 Thin Slices, Please!  In mindless fury, your foe tears a strip 
of flesh from your ribs. A yellowish rib winks at you for a 
moment before the view is obscured by upwelling blood.
Gain Bleeding (1).
36-40 36-40 2 Shoulder Cut. Your snarling foe leaps at you. As you try to 
turn away, it ravages the back of your shoulder, its teeth/
claws grating painfully against your shoulder blade.
Roll randomly for side, left or right. Suffer a Torn Muscle 
(Minor) for the arm on that side.
41-45 41-45 2 Raked Hip. Howling, your foe rakes your hip, dealing you 
several long parallel gashes.
For the rest of the encounter you suffer a penalty of -1 to your 
M and -10 to your Agility.
46-50 46-50 2 Just A Piece Off The Flank! Hurling itself at you, your foe 
comes away with a mouthful’s worth of lean flank meat.
Gain Bleeding (2).
51-55 51-55 2 Ooomph! Ferociously, your foe tries to dig into your belly but 
only manages to slam its muzzle or paw with great force into 
your solar plexus.
Gain Stunned (1).
56-60 56-60 3 One Rack Of Ribs, Please! Ribs bend and crack under your 
foe’s animalistic assault.
Suffer a Broken Bone (Minor).
61-65 61-65 3 Bestial Pounce! Roaring as it launches itself through the air, 
your foe tears long strips of flesh from your back, exposing 
gleaming ribs and slamming you to the ground.
Gain Stunned (2), Bleeding (1) and Prone.
66-70 66-70 3 Lung Lunch! Your vicious opponent digs its way through a 
couple of your upper ribs. The top of your lung is punctured, 
either by bone splinters or your foe’s sharp natural 
implements. It partly collapses as air and blood leak into the 
pleural space, leaving you gasping for air.
Gain Fatigued (2) which drops to Fatigued (1) after the end of 
the encounter. Because it’s only a rather minor pneumothorax 
you’ll get to remove the last Fatigued Condition after one 
week as the lung inflates itself back again.
71-75 71-75 3 Horrendous Hug! In an attack of mindless fury, your enemy 
shatters multiple ribs and cracks your breastbone. You feel 
like you’ve been hugged by a bear…or maybe you just were?
Suffer a Broken Bone (Major).
76-80 76-80 4 Respiratory Banquet! You find yourself very short of breath 
as teeth or claws pierce your chest wall to perforate one lung. 
As air and blood fill the pleural space, your lung collapses!
Gain Fatigued (3). For healing purposes, count as Torn Muscle 
(Major), with partial healing reducing your Conditions from 
Fatigued (3) to Fatigued (1) which will be removed once fully 
healed.
81-85 81-85 4 Eviscerating Slash. In a classic predatory disemboweling 
move, your foe catches you in the side, raking its natural 
killing tools across your belly. Your abdominal wall is pierced 
and a pink loop of intestine starts peeking out of the wound.
Gain Stunned (2). You must drop anything held in one hand to 
hold your intestines in place until you’ve received Medical 
Attention. Also, you contract a Festering Wound.
Until you’ve had Surgery you are unable to recover 2 of your 
lost Wounds.
86-90 86-90 4 Groin Groceries! Abandoning any sense of fair play, your 
sadistic foe goes for your groin! Any witnesses wince at 
such cruelty!
Gain Bleeding (3) as the many blood vessels in that sensitive 
area are mauled and mistreated. Pass a Hard (-20) Endurance 
Test or also gain Stunned (2).
If male, you may have problems procreating after this 
encounter.

77
tEEtH & ClaWs Body (ContinUEd)
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
91-93 91-95 5 Belly Buffet! Shedding any last remnants of animal or human 
decency, your foe rams muzzle or paws into your abdomen, 
trying to feed on you while you’re still alive. This damages 
your gastrointestinal tract, spilling content into your body 
cavity.
Gain Stunned (3) and Broken. You contract Blood Rot. Also, 
until you’ve had Surgery you are unable to recover 3 of your 
lost Wounds.
94-96 96-110 5 Gore Fest! Its small mind filled with images of gore and 
frenzied feeding, your foe digs into your flank, savaging a 
kidney, the liver or some other organ rich in blood vessels. A 
crimson tide drenches the both of you!
Gain Stunned (1) and Bleeding (3, the latter of which can only 
be removed using Surgery.
97-99 111-115 5 Gutted! Your blood-smeared foe politely belches after 
dragging out and ingesting a couple of feet of your small 
intestine. You sink to your knees, cradling the gaping tear in 
your belly from which the rest of your mangled innards are 
spilling.
Not really a survivable experience! You will expire within 
half your Toughness Bonus days (round up), helpless and 
slipping in and out of consciousness. If you receive magical 
healing equivalent to Surgery* before then, you’ll survive but 
suffer a permanent penalty of -15 to T and S as well as -2 to 
W plus a significant weight loss due to your now severely 
shortened digestive tract.
100 116+ D Partition! In a disturbing display of unbridled savagery and 
complete contempt for civilized behavior, your foe digs in 
claws and fangs, braces itself, and then with a mighty burst 
of bestial strength simply tears you in half.
You and your two separate halves are utterly lifeless. You 
have ceased to be. You are an ex-character!
 * This refers to any spell or prayer capable of recovering more than one Wound at a time. See page 4 for clarification which spells from the 
Rule Book count as applied Surgery.

78
tEEtH & ClaWs lEG 
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
01-10 01-10 T Chewed Shoe. You barely get your foot out of the way as your 
foe tears off the tip of your footwear.
You suffer a -10 penalty on any Agility Test you do your next 
turn. If you’re not wearing footwear the penalty is -20.
11-20 11-20 T Foot Bump. Your overeager foe slams into your foot as it tries 
to clamp fangs or claws into your lower extremity.
Pass an Easy (+40) Athletics Test to avoid gaining Prone.
21-25 21-25 1 Grazed Leg. Thirsting for your blood, your foe merely manages 
to rob you of some skin and drench your legwear in slobber.
You suffer a penalty of -10 to your next rolled Test.
26-30 26-40 1 Raked Hip. With the scent of blood in its nostrils, your enemy 
rakes your hip, dealing you several long parallel gashes.
You suffer a penalty of -1 to your M and -10 to your Agility for 
the rest of the encounter.
31-35 41-45 1 Collision! As you attempt to dodge your enemy’s slavering 
attention you are taken unaware by a sudden rush. The 
ensuing collision sends you flying!
You gain Prone. You must pass an Average (+20) Dexterity 
Test or drop anything held in your primary hand, sending it 
flying 1d10 yards in a random direction.
36-40 46-50 1 Sprain. Your foe growls in satisfaction as it catches hold of 
your leg. You manage to wrench it loose but suffer a sprain 
in the process.
You suffer a Torn Muscle (Minor).
41-45 51-55 2 Burger Feast! A credit to the culinary tastes of monsters 
everywhere, your foe takes a couple of brass pennies’ worth 
of hamburger from your buttock.
You gain Bleeding (1) and suffer a Torn Muscle (Minor). Also, 
there is a rather large hole in your pants…
46-50 56-60 2 Tastes Like Chicken!  Its savagery knowing no limits, your 
enemy tears open your thigh, delighting in the flow of blood 
and your shouts of pain.
You gain Bleeding (2) and suffer a Torn Muscle (Minor).
51-55 61-65 2 Severed Toe Tendons. Your growling foe removes flesh from 
the back of your foot, damaging several of the extensor 
tendons to your toes. This leads to you being able to curl 
but not properly extend your toes, with ensuing impaired 
balance and risk of stumbling over things as the front of your 
foot connects with ledges, stair steps, tree roots, etc.
Pass a Difficult (-10) Cool Test or lose your next Action as you 
look down at your dysfunctional foot and see the twitching 
white shreds of tendon curling out from the exposed flesh. 
You also suffer a Torn Muscle (Major), except your M is 
unaffected.
56-60 66-70 2 Achilles Atrocity! Displaying its predatory skills when it 
comes to bringing down fleeing prey, your foe savages the 
back of your ankle, damaging the large Achilles tendon.
You gain Prone and the leg is useless for the rest of the 
encounter (see under Amputated Parts). Afterwards it’ll 
count as Torn Muscle (Major).
61-65 71-75 3
Broken Ankle. A hideous crackling sound assaults your ears 
as your savage foe breaks your ankle between its teeth and/
or claws.
You suffer a Broken Bone (Minor).
66-70 76-80 3 Don’t Like Fast Food! Making sure you can’t get away, your 
foul foe prepares for its feast by tearing apart the large 
hamstring muscles at the back of your thigh, sending you 
crashing to the ground.
Gain Prone and Bleeding (2). Also suffer a Torn Muscle 
(Major). Your leg is useless (see Amputated Parts) until the 
Torn Muscle has completely healed.
71-75 81-85 3 This Little Piggy... One or more toes disappear down a 
monstrous gullet or go flying, possibly in the direction of the 
market…
You lose one toe – Amputation (Challenging), with one 
additional toe lost for each full -2 SL levels of failure to the 
Endurance Test.
76-80 86-90 4 Is Calf The Same As Veal?  Your foe satiates its hunger by 
ripping off most of your calf muscle. Its prominent absence 
leaves your two legs looking decidedly mismatched…
You gain Stunned (1), Bleeding (2) and Prone. Also, you suffer 
a Torn Muscle (Major) except only partial healing is possible 
as much muscle tissue is simply missing.
81-85 91-95 4 Is Thigh Dark Meat Or White Meat?  Your foe clamps fangs 
and/or claws around your thigh, worrying at the meat until 
the muscle and flesh has almost completely detached from 
the bone. Major veins and arteries are severed by this unkind 
treatment, resulting in major loss of blood.
Gain Bleeding (3) and Prone. For healing purposes the leg 
counts as a Broken Bone (Major) except all tests for long-
term penalties are automatically failed.
86-90 96-105 4 Knee d’Oeuvre. Being the monster it is, your foe feels no 
compunction going for your kneecap, tearing it out in a spray 
of blood! The patella is left hanging by a few threads of still 
intact tendon as you go down with a hideous scream of pain 
and horror!
Gain Stunned (3) and Prone. For healing purposes it counts 
as a Broken Bone (Major), except even when healed you 
suffer a permanent halved M (round up) and -20 to your 
Agility for any Tests requiring use of the leg. You also suffer 
a Festering Wound due to the wide open joint.
91-93 106-115 4 Eat Here Or To Go?  Your foe’s revolting appetites become 
obvious to all onlookers as it tears your foot off at the ankle!
Gain Stunned (2), Bleeding (2) and Prone. Lose the foot – 
Amputation (Challenging).

79
tEEtH & ClaWs lEG (ContinUEd)
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
94-96 116-120 5 Could You Slice It For Me?  Your lower leg is left stripped of 
skin and flesh, the half-severed foot dangling limply. Shards 
of the long bones, the tibia and ulna, stick out from the 
gory mess. It’s obvious it’ll have to come off! Your foe looks 
insufferably pleased with itself!
Gain Stunned (3), Bleeding (2) and Prone. The leg is lost – 
Amputation (Challenging). If you don’t receive Surgery 
within a week for a proper amputation you’ll contract Blood 
Rot as the remains go gangrenous.
97-99 121-125 5 I Like My Steak Bloody!  Always hungry for more gore, 
your brutish foe produces plenty of it! Your femoral artery 
is shredded at the junction between inner thigh and groin. 
The severed stump then withdraws into the pelvis, making it 
almost impossible to find and clamp the spurting vessel. Your 
world starts graying out at the edges…
Gain Bleeding (3), which requires Surgery to remove. If you 
fail to bleed to death, the leg will still be useless as the major 
nerves were also severed (see under Amputated Parts).
100 126+ D Drum Stick! Your fell foe exults in thumbing its muzzle at all 
things good and civilized, tearing and wrenching at your leg 
until it rips free from its socket at the hip. Death is mercifully 
quick, from loss of blood and sheer shock at your foe’s 
ferocious strength!
Your one-legged state is of only minor concern as you are 
also a corpse nowadays…

80
UnarmEd HEad 
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
01-10 01-03 T Glancing Blow. A heavy punch skims your cheek, barely 
failing to connect. 
You suffer a penalty of -10 to your next rolled Test.
11-20 04-06 1 Disorientating Blow. A blow to the side of the head 
momentarily disorients you.
You make not take an Action on your next turn.
21-25 07-09 1 Box On The Ear. You get a good box on the ear which smarts 
something fierce and makes your ears ring.
Gain Deafened (2).
26-30 10-15 1 Off Balance! Your foe tries to twist your head off and comes 
away with a handful of hair (or your scarf, hat or whatever if 
you happen to be bald). His attempt did send you off-balance 
and to the ground, however!
Gain Prone.
31-35 16-20 2 Raked Face. You enemy tries to gouge your eyes out but 
merely manages to get his nails into your skin, raking your 
face, leaving several long parallel oozing scratches.
You suffer a penalty of -10 to any Tests taken until the end of 
your next turn. The scratches also reduce your Fellowship 
characteristic by -10 for one week as people make wildly 
unfair speculations about their origin.
36-40 21-25 2 Cheek Punch. A vicious punch crumples one cheekbone, 
making your face look decidedly battered.
Gain Stunned (1) except you do not gain any Fatigued 
Condition once the Stunned Condition has been removed.
41-45 26-30 2 Nostril Rip! Your opponent jams a couple of fingers up your 
nostrils and then savagely rips them out again, tearing the 
sensitive flesh. Your eyes tear up from the brutal treatment.
Gain Blinded (2).
46-50 31-35 2 Ripped Ear. Your foe manages to grab one of your ears, 
tearing it off and leaving it dangling by a few threads of flesh 
from the side of your head.
Gain Deafened (2) and suffer a penalty of -5 to your Fellowship 
whenever your mangled ear is obvious.
51-55 36-40 3 Loosened Teeth. You take one in the mouth, loosening several 
teeth and mashing your lips bloody. Hey, at least you bruised 
your attacker’s knuckles!
Gain Stunned (1). Roll an Average (+20) Toughness Test, 
losing one tooth for each SL of failure (see under Amputated 
Parts).
56-60 41-45 3 Fractured Cheekbone. A powerful punch mashes one side of 
your face, providing you with a magnificent black eye and 
fracturing the cheekbone.
Pass an Easy (+40) Endurance Test or gain Unconscious, 
otherwise gaining Stunned (2).
61-65 46-50 3 Broken Jaw. A solid roundhouse blow to your chin fractures 
your lower jaw.
Pass an Easy (+40) Endurance Test or gain Unconscious, 
otherwise gaining Stunned (2). Regardless, you suffer a 
Broken Bone (Minor).
66-70 51-55 3 Throat Punch. Your unsportsmanlike opponent punches you 
in the throat, causing your windpipe to spasm and close, 
momentarily cutting off your airways.
Gain Stunned (1). Once removed the Stunned Condition 
is replaced by Fatigued (1), as usual, except you’ll gain 
another Fatigued Condition each subsequent turn until you 
reach Fatigued (3) at which point you’ll remove all Fatigued 
Conditions on your next turn as your throat recovers and you 
can breathe again.
71-75 56-60 4 Smashed Teeth. An elbow, boot or fist to your face sends 
teeth and blood flying.
Lose 1d10 teeth – Amputation (Challenging).
76-80 61-65 4 Head-Butt! Your nemesis head-butts you in the face, 
flattening your nose, sending bolts of flashing pain shooting 
into your brain and a flood of involuntary tears from your eyes. 
Gain Stunned (2) and Blinded (2).
81-85 66-75 4 Knee To The Face! Your merciless opponent manages to grab 
hold of your ears (or hair, or hat) and yanks your face down 
do connect with his ascending knee. The ensuing crunch is 
the sound of several teeth and your jaw shattering.
Pass an Average (+20) Endurance Test or go Unconscious, 
otherwise gaining Stunned (3). You suffer a Broken Bone 
(Major) and lose 1d10+5 teeth (see under Amputated Parts).
86-90 76-80 4 Tyson Move! The savagery of your opponent knows no 
bounds as he manages to get a good hold on your head and 
proceeds to bite something protruding right off, spitting it out 
in a spray of blood.
You suffer an Amputation (Challenging). Roll 1d10 to find out 
what got bitten off:
 1-3 The nose
 4-8 One ear
 9-10 Enough cheek and/or lip to gain you a permanent penalty 
of -10 to your Fellowship
91-93 81-85 5 Gouged Eye. Your barbarous opponent jams a thumb into your 
eye, gouging it out or squishing it.
You gain Stunned (3) and Blinded (2). You also lose the eye – 
Amputation (Hard).
94-96 86-94 5 Skull Fracture. A brutal blow to your temple, whether 
delivered by a heel, elbow, knuckledusters or hand, fractures 
your skull.
Gain Unconscious. After you wake up you gain Fatigued (2) 
which will last until the plates of your skull have set again in 
30 minus your Toughness Bonus days.

81
UnarmEd HEad (ContinUEd)
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
97-99 95-99 5 Crushed Larynx. Your foe crushes your windpipe, crumpling 
the cartilage of your larynx. This blocks your airways and you 
start choking dramatically!
You gain Fatigued (1) and will gain another level of Fatigued at 
the end of each of your subsequent turns until the cartilage is 
popped back into place. This requires either a Hard (-20) Heal 
Test by yourself or a Challenging (+0) Heal Test by someone 
else. If successful all Fatigued Conditions are removed but 
you won’t be able to speak for a week. If you reach Fatigued 
(10) you go Unconscious and die from suffocation in another 
Toughness Bonus rounds.
100 100+ D Broken Neck. Your enemy breaks your neck, either with a 
mighty blow snapping your poor head back, or by grabbing 
you by chin and back of head, violently twisting until a loud 
crack is heard. Death is instantaneous!
You and your lolling head are very much expired.

82
UnarmEd arm
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
01-10 01-10 T Failed Grab. A quick snatch at your sleeve fails but still 
makes you flinch!
Pass an Average (+20) Cool Test or your next Action may not 
be an attack.
11-20 11-20 1 Shoulder Bash. You take a jarring blow to the shoulder. You suffer a penalty of -10 to your next rolled Test.
21-25 21-25 1 Bruised Knuckles. Bone slams into bone and yours come off 
worse!
You suffer a penalty of -10 to any Tests using that hand until 
the end of your next turn.
26-30 26-40 1 Tug-Of-War! Your foe manages to grab whatever you are 
holding in that hand and starts pulling!
Roll an Opposed Strength Test . Success or a draw means 
your enemy lets go. Loss by 1-4 SL means you lose your next 
Action but retain the item. Loss by 5+ SL means you drop 
what you held in that hand and your foe takes possession of 
it. If you were carrying it in both hands (like a two-handed 
weapon) you get to roll twice and pick the best result.
31-35 41-45 2 Bruised Muscle. An elbow or heel slams hard into your 
biceps muscle, bruising it badly.
You suffer a penalty of -10 to any Tests using that arm for the 
rest of the encounter.
36-40 46-50 2 Twisted Wrist. Your wrist is badly wrenched and sprained. Your hand is useless for 1d10/3 turns (see under Amputated 
Parts) but you do not drop anything held in it.
41-45 51-55 2 Bruised Collarbone. Your opponent makes a vicious chop at 
your collarbone, bruising but not breaking it.
You suffer a Torn Muscle (Minor) except it heals in half the 
usual time.
46-50 56-60 2 Funny-Bone Injury. Your ulnar nerve at the elbow is smacked 
hard, causing your hand to spasm.
You drop anything held in that hand, and the arm is useless 
for the next 1d10/2 turns (see under Amputated Parts).
51-55 61-75 3 Broken Finger. Your foe manages to get hold of one of your 
fingers, bending it backwards savagely until the bone snaps.
One finger is useless (see under Amputated Parts) for 30 
minus your Toughness Bonus days when the broken bone 
will have mended, possibly a bit on the crooked side but still 
functional.
56-60 76-80 3 Temporary Paralysis. You find yourself transported in time 
back to your childhood when your older brother would 
suddenly yell “Free shoulder punch!” and slam his knuckles 
into your deltoid shoulder muscle so hard your whole arm 
went numb…thanks to your friendly opponent you now get 
to relive those happy childhood memories!
Gain Stunned (1). You drop anything held in that hand and the 
arm us useless for the next 1d10 turns (see under Amputated 
Parts).
61-65 81-85 3 Broken Collarbone. A heavy blow to the angle between 
shoulder and neck fractures your collarbone. You can still 
move your arm but feel the broken bone ends grinding 
against each other!
Although strictly speaking a fracture the injury counts as a 
Torn Muscle (Minor).
66-70 86-90 3 Boxer’s Fracture. Your hand gets slammed, fracturing a 
couple of the metacarpals, the long bones between wrist 
and fingers, a classical “boxer’s fracture” usually caused by 
punching something too hard.
You suffer a Broken Bone (Minor).
71-75 91-95 4 Dislocated Thumb. Your foe twists your thumb, bending it at 
an unfortunate angle, causing it to be dislocated. Not only 
very painful but also quite tricky to pop back in place!
You gain Stunned (1) from the severe pain. It counts as a 
Broken Bone (Minor) except that the absence of Medical 
Attention within one week of receiving the injury will cause 
you to automatically fail the Endurance Test for long-term 
effects.
76-80 96-109 4 Dislocated Shoulder. Your enemy grabs you and throws you 
over his hip, slamming you into the ground. You land on your 
shoulder with a crunch, your entire weight coming down on 
the joint and dislocating it!
Gain Prone. Your arm is useless (see under Amputated 
Parts) and the pain so severe you suffer a -10 penalty to 
all Tests. You can try to pop it back in place yourself, which 
is a Hard (-20) Test for either Cool, Endurance or Heal , 
depending on your method (which can consist of simply 
slamming yourself into something solid at a hopeful angle…
or something slightly more scientific). Alternately, a friend or 
ally can attempt a Challenging (+0) Heal Test. This puts your 
arm back in action again without penalties. Otherwise the 
shoulder will pop back in place spontaneously during your 
next long rest, but will be sore enough for a -10 penalty to 
any Tests performed with that arm for the next 24 hours.
81-85 110-115 4 Torn Hand. Your opponent grabs two of your fingers in each 
hand and violently tears the two pairs in different directions, 
ripping your hand in half lengthwise, splitting it almost to the 
wrist! Although the metacarpals and tendons are intact, your 
hand now looks like a grotesque lobster claw.
Gain Stunned (2). The hand is useless for the rest of the 
encounter (see under Amputated Parts), but will count as a 
Torn Muscle (Major) after the encounter when you’ve had 
a chance to wrap the two halves of the split hand together 
again with a bandage or rag.

83
UnarmEd arm (ContinUEd)
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
86-90 116-120 4 Dislocated Elbow. Your elbow is dislocated with a nasty pop 
as your foe either gives it a mighty yank or manages to trap 
your forearm and then slams down on it hard enough for the 
joint to pop. This exceedingly painful dislocation leaves you 
with a useless arm and great discomfort!
Your arm is useless (see under Amputated Parts) and the 
pain so severe you suffer a -10 penalty to all Tests for the 
rest of the encounter. The arm will remain useless until 
given Medical Attention after the encounter, which requires 
a Challenging (+0) Heal Test to pop it back, which can be 
repeated once per day. If successful it’ll count as a Torn 
Muscle (Minor) rather than a lost limb.
91-93 121-125 5 Snapped Wrist. Your foe manages to snap your wrist, making 
the hand stand out at an odd angle.
Gain Stunned (1) and suffer a Broken Bone (Minor).
94-96 126-130 5 Snapped Elbow. Your enemy grapples your arm and then 
brings up a knee to slam into the elbow joint, snapping the 
elbow with a loud crack.
Gain Stunned (2) and suffer a Broken Bone (Major).
97-99 131-135 5 Crushed Shoulder. You are picked up bodily and slammed 
into either the ground or some unfortunately placed corner, 
piece of furniture or tree. Your shoulder takes the full impact 
and breaks, the blow also tearing the brachial nerve plexus, 
leaving your arm paralyzed.
You gain Prone and Stunned (3). You also lose all function in 
the arm permanently (see under Amputated Parts).
100 136+ D Crash Landing! As you try to take a swing at him, your 
foe grabs your arm and uses your momentum to drag you 
toward him, and then roll backwards as he puts a foot in your 
stomach, hurling you over his head. You land with a crash, 
snapping your neck or crushing your skull!
(If the GM judges that such a throw is completely unlikely, 
such as if you very considerably outweigh your foe, or have 
a very low centre of gravity, then he instead manages to get 
you so off-balance that you are still hurled to the ground 
and knocked unconscious, perhaps tripping you up as you 
stumble past him.)
You are dead due to an unfortunate and fatal landing!
(If you are a Dwarf in full Plate, and thus extremely unlikely 
to be tossed, you instead gain Unconscious.)

84
UnarmEd Body
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
01-10 01-10 T Staggered! You stagger backwards but right yourself. You suffer a penalty of -10 to your next rolled Test.
11-20 11-20 1 Body Blow! A blow to the ribs just under an armpit sends 
you reeling.
You make not take an Action on your next turn.
21-25 21-25 1 Tackle! Your opponent slams into you, shoulder first. Make an Opposed Strength Test  – failure means you gain 
Prone.
26-30 26-30 1 Collarbone Chop! Your foe makes a vicious chop at your 
collarbone.
You take a penalty of -10 to all Test until the end of your next 
turn.
31-35 31-35 1 Solar Plexus Punch! You take one straight in the gut, 
slamming the breath from your body.
Gain Stunned (1) except you do not gain any Fatigued 
Condition once the Stunned Condition has been removed.
36-40 36-40 2 Take-Down! The sound of ribs creaking accompanies the 
whoosh of your forcefully expelled breath as your foe knocks 
you to the ground.
Gain Prone and Stunned (1) except you do not gain any 
Fatigued Condition once the Stunned Condition has been 
removed.
41-45 41-45 2 Fractured Rib. Your opponent’s blow causes a hairline 
fracture in one of your ribs, making deep breaths a painful 
experience for you.
You gain Fatigued (1) for the rest of the encounter.
46-50 46-50 2 Kidney Punch! Your ribs flex and creak under the assault. 
After the encounter you have a good scare as your pee turns 
red from a contused kidney!
Gain Stunned (2).
51-55 51-55 2 Dislocated Collarbone. A blow to the angle between neck 
and shoulder dislocates the collarbone on that side.
Roll randomly for side, left or right. The arm on that side is 
useless for 1d10 turns (see under Amputated Parts).
56-60 56-60 3 Twisted Back. You wrench your back badly, something that 
will come back and haunt you for a while.
Gain Stunned (1). For the next month, any time you take a hit 
to the Body Location, you’ll gain Stunned (1) again.
61-65 61-65 3 Hip Bruise. A savage kick to the hip leaves a huge bruise. You suffer a penalty of -1 to your M and -10 to all Agility Tests 
for the rest of the encounter.
66-70 66-70 3 Groin Hit. Your despicable foe manages to land a good one to 
your crotch area, upsetting you greatly!
Gain Stunned (3). 
71-75 71-75 3 Broken Ribs. Your enemy pummels your ribs, breaking 
several of them.
You suffer a Broken Bone (Minor).
76-80 76-80 4 Arrhythmia. A powerful blow to the chest bruises your 
breastbone and makes your heart start beating irregularly. 
Roll an Extended Challenging (+0) Endurance Test at the 
start of each of your subsequent turns. Failure means you 
gain Unconscious. An Astounding Failure (-6 SL)  means 
you die. Accumulating 4 SL means your heart starts beating 
normally again.
81-85 81-85 4 Smashed Ribcage. Your foe gets a good grip on you and 
savagely slams his knee over and over again into your side, 
breaking several ribs and contusing a lung.
Gain Stunned (2) and suffer a Broken Bone (Major).
86-90 86-90 4 Ruptured Spleen. A vicious kick to your left flank ruptures your 
spleen. Because this organ functions as an important blood 
filter, this naturally causes serious bleeding! Fortunately 
the fibrous capsule surrounding the spleen remains intact, 
which may save your life…
Gain Bleeding (1) which can only be removed through 
magical healing.* Surgery or ordinary Heal Tests don’t work 
as the bleeding is inside the fibrous capsule surrounding the 
spleen, impossible to get at. Fortunately, the capsule also 
contains the bleeding, which will stop after 1d10+5 turns, 
causing the Bleeding Condition to be removed.
Because the spleen is an important part of your immune 
system you’ll lose any Resistance (Disease) Talent that you 
had.
91-93 91-95 5 Body Slam! Your opponent picks you up bodily and then 
slams you back first into the ground. Not only does this 
punch the air out of your lungs, you also hit the back of your 
head and everything goes dark…
You gain Unconscious.
94-96 96-110 5 Pneumothorax. Repeated blows to your chest fractures a rib 
badly enough to pierce one lung. You cough blood and start 
feeling very short of breath as the lung collapses.
Gain Fatigued (3). For healing purposes, count as Torn Muscle 
(Major), with partial healing reducing your Conditions from 
Fatigued (3) to Fatigued (1) which will be removed once fully 
healed.

85
UnarmEd Body (ContinUEd)
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
97-99 111-115 5 Internal Bleeding. Your merciless foe’s blows break several 
of the floating ribs protecting your right flank, driving sharp 
fragments into your body and lacerating your liver.
Gain Bleeding (2), which requires Surgery to remove. Should 
you fail to bleed to death you’ll still suffer a Broken Bone 
(Minor).
100 116+ D Broken Spine. Your enemy slams you down on your back 
across his knee with irresistible force, breaking your spine!
Pass a Challenging (+0) Toughness Test  or die from the 
shock. Success still leaves you Stunned (4) with two useless 
legs (see under Amputated Parts).
 * See pages 3-4 for information on how to remove Bleeding Conditions with spells and prayers.

86
UnarmEd lEG
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
01-10 01-10 T Near Miss. You barely avoid a swipe at your leg, jumping 
backwards just in time.
You take your next Action last in the turn.
11-20 11-20 T Foot Swipe. Your foe attempts to kick your feet out from 
under you.
Your M is halved on your next turn as you steady yourself.
21-25 21-25 1 Bruised Hip. You take a vicious blow to your hip. You suffer a penalty of -20 to your next rolled Test.
26-30 26-40 1 Kicked In The Shin! You get kicked in the shin, which is both 
embarrassing and painful.
You suffer a penalty of -1 to your M and -10 to your Agility 
for 1d10 turns.
31-35 41-45 1 Toe Stomp! Your enemy stomps on your foot, catching your 
toes with such wicked force that you wail piteously in pain!
1d10/2 of your toes become useless for the rest of the 
encounter (see under Amputated Parts).
36-40 46-50 1 Jump Kick! Your opponent leaps into the air and kicks 
downwards, catching you on the thigh.
Pass an Average (+20) Endurance Test  or go Prone. 
Regardless, you suffer a penalty of -1 to your M and -10 to 
your Agility for the rest of the encounter.
41-45 51-55 2 Spin Kick! A ferocious kick to your hip spins you around and 
knocks you to the ground.
You gain Prone.
46-50 56-60 2 Bruised Thigh. Your quadriceps muscles are mashed against 
your thigh bone, and badly bruised.
Your M is halved (round up) and you suffer a penalty of -2o to 
your Agility for the rest of the encounter.
51-55 61-65 2 A Pain In The Patookas! There’s no nice way of saying this…
but you just got kicked in the butt. And kicked hard!
You gain Prone and anything held in your hands goes flying 
out of your grip. If the ground is suitably dirty, muddy or 
gravelly, you get a faceful of that as well!
56-60 66-70 2 Sprained Ankle. You manage to hold your charging foe 
back but your foot still twists under you as you push back, 
spraining your ankle.
You suffer a Torn Muscle (Minor).
61-65 71-75 3 Groin Kick. Your enemy proves that your good looks are no 
protection against a good ol’ low blow!
Gain Stunned (3).
66-70 76-80 3 Broken Foot. A metatarsal bone, one of the long bones of the 
midfoot, snaps as you suffer a heavy hit.
Gain Stunned (1). Your M is reduced to 1 and you suffer a 
penalty of -30 to your Agility until the bone has healed in 30 
minus your Toughness Bonus days.
71-75 81-85 3 Swollen Knee. Your knee swells up after a vicious blow, 
doubling in size as blood and fluid collect in the joint.
Your leg is useless (see under Amputated Parts) for the rest 
of the encounter, afterwards counting as a Torn Muscle 
(Minor).
76-80 86-90 4 Broken Ankle. Your ankle snaps with a sharp crack. You gain Prone and suffer a Broken Bone (Minor).
81-85 91-95 4 Dislocated Kneecap. A heavy heel to the side of your knee 
punches the kneecap sideway. With your patella dislocated 
and standing out like an ugly bump from the side of your knee, 
your leg is effectively locked in a painful bent position!
You gain Prone and Stunned (1). Also, your leg is useless (see 
under Amputated Parts) until the kneecap has been popped 
back into place. You can try to pop it back in place yourself, 
which is a Very Hard (-30) Test for either Cool, Endurance 
or Heal, depending on your method (which can consist of 
simply slamming your knee into something solid at a hopeful 
angle…or a slightly more scientific proposal). Alternately, a 
friend or ally can attempt a Challenging (+0) Heal Test. After 
a successful pop, you’ll instead count as having suffered a 
Torn Muscle (Minor).
86-90 96-105 4 Smashed Foot. Your foe stomps down hard on your foot, 
grinding his heel in while bones shatter and break under it!
You gain Prone and Stunned (2). Also, you suffer a Broken 
Bone (Major).
91-93 106-115 4 Shattered Knee. Your very unsportsmanlike enemy slams a 
powerful blow into the side of your knee, bending the knee 
inwards in a most painful and unnatural manner, popping 
something inside the joint. Ligaments inside the knee have 
snapped, making the joint unstable and wobbly!
Gain Prone and Stunned (3). You suffer a Broken Bone 
(Major) and will automatically fail all Tests for long-term 
penalties.
94-96 116-120 5 Shin Stomp! Your foe slams you to the ground and then 
stomps on your shin, breaking both tibia and fibula. Those 
two long bones shatter into sharp shards that tear out 
through the skin like bony daggers!
Gain Prone, Bleeding (1) and Stunned (3) . If you receive 
Surgery within a week the injury will count as a Broken Bone 
(Major) except you’ll fail all Tests for long-term penalties. 
Otherwise you’ll lose use of the leg permanently (see under 
Amputated Parts). Regardless, you contract a Festering 
Wound from the open fracture.

87
UnarmEd lEG (ContinUEd)
Core UIA W Description Additional Effects
97-99 121-125 5 Dislocated Hip. Whether from a powerful blow or some 
gruesome wrestler’s move to force you into an involuntary 
and hurtful split, your opponent dislocates your hip. This 
breaks off a fragment of the acetabulum, the part of the 
pelvic bone forming the “cup” socket holding the head of the 
thighbone in place, leaving you screaming in agony on the 
ground.
Gain Prone and Stunned (4). The leg is useless (see under 
Amputated Parts).
If you receive Surgery within a week and spend a month 
bedridden and in traction (the leg detained in a crane-like 
scaffolding and held stretched out by pulleys and weights) 
your leg will heal with the long-term penalties associated 
with failing all Tests after suffering a Broken Bone (Major). 
Otherwise the strain on blood vessels and nerves will result 
in avascular necrosis (bone death) in the joint and enduring 
nerve damage, making the leg permanently useless.
100 126+ D Backflip! Your foe sweeps your legs out from under you with 
such force that you make an impressive backflip. Sadly you 
smack the back of your head when you land, cracking your 
skull.
You are the latest and saddest example of the consequences 
of engaging in amateur acrobatics without proper 
supervision. Yup, you just died!